- one good hello Darryl hey Joe how are
you doing my pleasure thank you for
being here really appreciate it thank
you um I read your story I saw a thing
about you on NPR and it's crazy you've
converted how many people 200 KKK
members you've got them to drop their
robes why some directors some indirectly
yes how did that all happen Wow you know
I keep running into these guys I mean
I'm a musician by trade right position
right rock & roll blues swing jazz
mighty reason jazz but hey I'll play
whatever you want me to play you paint
I'm playing so uh everybody likes music
now even the KKK
so you said - well to my advantage I was
playing on a bar one night in Frederick
Maryland all white bar and when I say
all white I don't mean that blacks
couldn't go in what I mean is that
blacks chose not to go in they weren't
welcome and here I wasn't this bar with
his country band a friend of mine Spann
I was only a black guy in the band
he's only black guy in the bar and upon
finishing the first set this I'm walking
to the to the band table and somebody
came up with their arm around my
shoulder I'm trying to see who it was it
was a white gentleman maybe 15 18 years
older than me and he says yeah I really
enjoy your all's music I said thank you
understand and he pointed at the stage
and said you know I've seen this here
band before but I never seen you before
would you come from and I sprained yeah
you know they told me they played here
before but this is my first time in this
place I just joined the band and he said
well man I really like your piano
playing this is the first time I ever
heard a black man play piano like Jerry
Lee Lewis and I wasn't um I wasn't
offended but I was rather surprised
because as I said you know this guy's
like maybe 15 years older than me and he
didn't he did not know the black origin
of Jerry Lee there was a style of piano
playing I explained it to him I got it
from the same place Jerry Lee did from
black blue
and boogie woogie piano blares where the
guy was incredulous are not are not jury
invented that I never heard no black man
play like that except for you
something okay with us this guy never
heard of Little Richard or Fats Domino
and I said look man I know Jerry Lee
Lewis is a friend of mine he's told me
himself whether or not to play
the guy did not buy that I need Jerry
Lee hidden by the jury lead or anything
from black people but he was so
fascinated that he wanted to buy me a
drink
or that was like a novelty to him so him
back to his table had a cranberry juice
and then he announces this is the first
time I was sat down had a drink with a
black man and now I'm I know he was
incredulous like how can that be
you know I sat down with thousands of
white people anybody else had a meal of
beverage a conversation how was it this
guy had never done that and innocently I
asked him I said why he didn't answer me
at first he stared down at the table top
and I asked him again and his buddy
sitting next to him elbowed him in the
side I said tell him tell him tell him I
said tell me yeah I forgot what is this
mystery he looks at me just as plain as
day and he says I'm a member of the Ku
Klux Klan
well I burst out laughing you know it
was getting weirder by the second huh
yeah I knew a lot about the plan I've
been studying racism since I was a ten
year old kid because of an incident that
happened to me back then and I bought
books on black supremacy white supremacy
the KKK the Nazis the neo-nazis um for
to try to understand this mentality and
I knew what Klansmen would not come up
and just throw his arm around some black
guy's shoulder on phrases talent and
wanna you know hang out with him buy him
a drink so I know this guy's jerking me
around
so I'm laughing and he goes inside his
pocket and pulls out his wallet and
produces his Klan membership card Def
cards oh yeah yeah and he gave me his uh
card I looked at it and I recognized the
Klan insignia which is a a red circle
with a white cross and a red blood drop
in the center of the cross and I was oh
man this thing's for real so I stopped
laughing
it wasn't funny anymore and I gave it
back to him and we chatted about the
Klan and different things but the dude
gave me his phone number and want me to
call him whatever I was to return to
this bar so he could bring his friends
meaning Klansmen and clans women to see
this black guy play like Julie I'm not
sure he called me a black guy to his
friends but but I said I caught you so I
would call him every six weeks on a
Wednesday or Thursday say hey man you
know we're down at the silver dollar no
Friday and Saturday come on out he came
out both nights he bring Klansmen in
Klansmen and they come and gather around
the bandstand and watch me for the piano
or get out there and dance to our music
now you know they didn't come in robes
and hoods right they came in street
clothes and on the brick I would go to
his table say hello some of them were
very curious they'd hang out there and
want to meet me and talk to me others
would see me coming and get up and take
off and those stands throughout the part
of the room where it's like I just want
to see you I don't want to deal with you
so that was fine and I decided later on
I would write a book and because I've
been looking for an answer to a question
that I had formed when I was age 10 my
question was how can you hate me when
you don't even know me and this was a
result of having marched in a Cub Scout
parade at the age of 10 being the only
black scout in the sub parade and while
most people on the streets and sidewalks
were cheering us we were marching from
Lexington to Concord Massachusetts to
commemorate the ride of Paul Revere and
people were like waving flags and
yelling and screaming the British are
coming and all of the time except for
one small pocket of people who were
throwing rocks and bottles at me and at
age 10 my first thought was oh those
people over there don't like the scouts
now that's how naive I was it wasn't
until my den mother my Cub master my
troop leader all came rushing over
and how to lower me with their bodies
these are white people and escorted me
out of the danger that I realized I was
only targeted with nobody else was
getting this protection and these were
adults or these were other children's
were a couple it was maybe about five
people I'm gonna get me a couple of kids
maybe my age a year older and some
adults adults were throwing rocks and
bottles at a ten year old boy that's
correct yeah Wow and you know I I kept
saying to my uh my Scout leaders I
didn't do anything I didn't do anything
I was not trying to find out what did I
do
right you know what why are they doing
this to me right and they kept snow
slush in me telling me to hurry up move
along he'll be okay
so they never answered the question
isn't why this was happening when I got
home that day after this parade my
mother and father who were not there
were putting mature chrome and band-aids
on me and asked him how did I fall down
and get all scraped up I chose my didn't
fall down I told them exactly what had
happened and for the first time in my
life my mom and dad sat me down and
explained to me what racism was at the
age of 10 I had never heard the term
racism now what year was this 1968 okay
I'll tell you why because my dad was a
US foreign service so we spent a lot of
time overseas every two years you go to
a country you're there for two years
come back home for a few months and then
you get reassigned to another country so
when I was overseas
in elementary school my classes were
filled with kids from all over the world
anybody who had an embassy in those
countries all US embassy kids would've
the same school my class was full of
kids from Nigeria Italy France Germany
Japan Russia you name it if you were to
open the door to my classroom and stick
your head in you would say this will
suck in United Nations of little kids so
that's exactly what it was and we all
got along then I would come home after
that two year assignment and I would be
in either all-black schools or all
schools I'm sorry all black schools or
all black and white schools meaning they
are still segregated or the newly
integrated schools and there was not the
amount of diversity in my classroom that
I had overseas today you walk into a
classroom you know you can't tell where
we're from from all over so literally um
between 1961 and like 1968 1970 I was
living about 12 years into the future
when I was living overseas because that
that multicultural scene had yet to come
to this country and when it did of
course I was already prepared
unfortunately many of my peers were not
so I didn't experience racism had I
lived here my you know my whole life I
might have had a different perspective
and not taking this path so I was very
curious about it and fascinated with it
like how can somebody hate you and they
don't even know you
it was just beyond my comprehension and
I knew something was wrong because the
people who did this to me did not look
any different than my little French
friends my Swedish friends or my fellow
Americans from the embassy or for that
matter
my fellow Americans right there you know
at the school where I went where we did
the March so I knew it wasn't a color
thing in fact when my parents told me
this I did not believe my parents I felt
for some reason my parents are lying to
me because my ten year old brain could
not process the idea there's someone who
had never seen me had never spoken to me
knew nothing about me wouldn't want to
inflict pain upon me for no other reason
than the color of my skin so I did not
believe them well a month and a half
later that same year an associate on
April the fourth Marta 13 was
assassinated and I remembered very well
we were in Massachusetts st. Louis and
nearby Boston Washington DC my hometown
Chicago Illinois Philadelphia Detroit
Baltimore Richmond LA all burned to the
ground with violence
destruction all in the name of this new
word that I had learned called racism
and so then I realized my parents had
told me the truth this phenomenon called
racism does exist but why I'd understand
why okay so it's here but why and so
that's when I formed that question how
can you hate me
we don't even know me and so I've been
looking for the answer to that question
now for 51 years I'm uh 16 years old so
after I uh I met this Klansmen sure Oh
maybe he I don't know three or four
months later I quit that band and went
back to playing rock and roll and blues
and R&B and then it dawned on me Darryl
you know the answer that you've been
seeking since h10 fell right into your
lap who better to ask that question of
how can you hate me we don't even know
me than to ask it of somebody who would
go so far as to join an organization
whose sole apprentice has been hating
people who do not look like them and who
do not believe as they believe and this
organization has been around for over a
hundred years somebody would go that far
to join the KKK sure damn sure have an
answer to your question hmm
so get back in contact with that guy and
why don't you write a book because I had
every book I still do every book written
on the plan and they all were written by
white authors obviously because a white
author would have you know less fear of
ramifications talking to a Klansmen or
interviewing them would have easier
access or could join the plan undercover
get the story get out and write about it
so my book became the first book ever
written by a black father on the foofa's
plan from the perspective of sitting
down face to face I decided I would go
around the country interview clan
leaders there in Maryland where I live
up north down south Midwest and West and
I said I would start right there in
Maryland so I got ahold of that guy and
I wanted him to introduce me to the Klan
leader from Maryland what was his
reaction when um when I told you mine
grabbing the microphone just pull it
just pure little closer to okay perfect
what was his reaction when you called up
and said hey I want to know what makes
you guys tick like why are you doing
this Wow
so funnier than that the I um I found
the guys number you know from the bar
from Silver Dollar Lounge and I called
it it's like months later and it had
been disconnected
so I'd to track him down turned out he
hadn't moved he didn't have a phone
robbed they were giving an address and
so I had no way of no no letting him
know imma come over and talk to you so I
showed up at his apartment one evening
and knocked on the door and I hadn't see
the guy in a while right he opens the
door and sees because they're all you
know what are you doing here and he and
he steps out into the hallway and lifts
up and down the hallway see if I brought
anybody with me now and when he stepped
out of his apartment I stepped in so we
turn around he comes back in he was
what's going on he's still playing
what's going on I said yeah yeah yeah
I'm playing but uh I need to talk to you
with the Klan this is the Klan I said
yeah you remember right it was well I
was but I quit and he went into this
long dissertation as to why quit the
plan so long story short I said I want
to meet the Klan leader did he quit the
Klan because of his interaction with you
no no no actually he lied to me yes he
was no longer in the Klan but what
happened to us he said he quit because
he didn't even like their ideology I
later found out in my research that and
I got this from the guy who banished him
the the leader of the of that particular
Klan group vanished yeah yeah that's
their term they banished you okay so
every year claims were small shape
first of all limited me it's written the
hierarchy of the plan okay
okay today there is no such thing as the
Ku Klux Klan all right there used to be
there today there are many Fuchs clan
groups and they all are autonomous they
use the same name Ku Klux Klan you might
have the dixie Knights of the Ku Klux
land the Confederate Knights of the Ku
Klux Klan the rebel Knights on Iran and
on these are all separate Ku Klux Klan
groups they believe in the same ideology
there were the same colors on their
robes that designate their rank they
have the same secret handshake this
lends the secret handshake just like
honey I'll show it to you later yeah
yeah we'll do it later
oh we can't tell people in case honey
shakes your hand they don't even know I
can't reveal clans secrets oh okay
serious stuff oh yeah same passwords
everything that passwords yeah you know
understand the plan was formed in 1865
at the end of the Civil War and it was
formed by by sits Confederate soldiers
who were of Irish and Scottish descent
and what they did was they borrowed the
the rituals or similar rituals and names
and a mystery from the Scottish Rite the
Masons
you know grin this or that I wasn't sure
exactly precisely
don't they have dragons yep yep okay so
here's how the hierarchy works all right
so I said over the years central split
apart into different splinter groups a
plan so and they're all arrivals with
each other if you see a couple different
plan groups out in public they will hold
a you know unified front but behind
closed doors they don't like each other
really yeah you know we're real clan you
know they're wannabe plan competition
another thing because they may have been
in the same van at one time and
something happened somebody embezzled
some plan dues or didn't get promoted
you know or whatever so anyway if you
have a chapter of your particular clan
group in another state or in multiple
states you may then consider yourself or
your group to be a national clan Roop
therefore you must have a national
leader so oversees all the states in
which you
a chapter of your particular group so we
call our national leader the president
and clan terminology that person is
known as the Imperial wizard anybody who
is prefixed with the word imperial is
that person is a national officer wizard
being the top I sir Imperial wizard
black the president an imperial clay
Liffe will be like a vice president and
he have secretaries treasurer's whole
nine yards and then the next level down
would be state the head of the state
which we call the governor that person
is known as a Grand Dragon anybody Grand
is on the state level state officer
dragon being the top governor a grand
clay Liffe will be like a lieutenant
governor and then secretary treasurer
and then within the state who have
counties the County leader is known as
the great Titan anybody on the great
level doesn't look as on the county
level within the county we have
districts what they call clavin's and we
would call a district leader a mayor a
councilman aldermen that individual is
known as they as an exalted Cyclops so
exalted Cyclops arrest them you would
say sir exalted Cyclops yeah Wow that's
hilarious so anyway um why Cyclops
that's what that's the name they chose I
mean when you think of the Cyclops thing
one of those guys with one eye and yeah
that's forehead yeah but you know they
have all these different names and then
below of the Cyclops are just you know
rank-and-file Oh
plain white robe Klansmen transwoman so
um I wanted to do meet the I'll start in
Maryland where I live I want to start
with the Klan leader from Maryland now
you could have several different Klan
groups in the same state and they are
rivals with each other and you didn't
have chapters of those same clan rooms
within your state so this guy named
Roger Kelly was the Grand Dragon for the
state of Maryland for this guy's Klan
group and Roger Kelly at the time had
the largest Klan group in Maryland
how many members they don't give out
numbers but to Roger had probably just
over 200 which is a very high number for
that time period sometimes with some
they only have ten members some you know
they have an internet presence but only
one guy sitting in his basement you know
putting on something but anyway this guy
didn't I want him to introduce me to
Roger Kelly I want to I want to Roger to
be my first interview and he was
terrified and I can't do it Darrell both
of you in trouble I said but you're not
in the plan anymore is it doesn't matter
I cannot take a black man to the Grand
Dragon so he was concerned generally for
my safety as well as his own and I said
well look why don't you give me mr.
Kelly's address and phone number and I
will go to his house and talk to him and
he would not do that I begged and
pleaded for 20 minutes he finally gave
me mr. Kelly's address and phone number
Wow on the condition that I not tell mr.
Kelly where I got it and I said okay
then he warned me he said Darrell
well that guy could crack under pressure
yeah oh I want to tell you what why he
got banished okay but that's coming less
coming okay he warned you yeah he warned
me and he said Darrell do not you know
look do not litter watch Kelly's house
he'll kill you
and then he said there's a bar up in
Thurmont Maryland now you know Thurmont
Maryland you don't know it for the Klan
but that was one of their headquarters
you know Fairmont Maryland because it's
also the home of Camp David the
presidential retreat and and the
headquarters for the class right there
right down the road that's hilarious
yeah and thermal the time was an
all-white town any time a black uh
person moved in or interracial couple or
a gay couple somehow mysteriously across
will be burned in the yard and boom they
move right out now that is not that does
not mean that every person in thermite
is in the Klan because they're not in
fact most white people up there wanted
the Klan gone but that's where it was
headquartered so um he said there's a
bar up there where they hang out every
Saturday night and if I go to that bar
I'm sure to find Roger Kelly
and you know unless you're out of town
rallying somewhere he says but I don't
guarantee you that Roger will even talk
to you but you're safer to approach him
in a public place
then corners property did he give you a
photograph how'd you find no no I knew
Roger kill he looked like this he was
always in the newspaper on the news you
know being interviewed something like
that I never met him but I knew you know
his image so he drew me a little map
how'd it get to this place and so
Saturday night I'm sure that thing off
and um he uh he says um do not do not
you know approach on his own property
that's all right so I you know I'm a
musician I'm working Saturday nights I
can't go you know go chasing the Klan on
Saturday night just a hobby
yeah so at that point it wasn't as a
full-time profession I call my secretary
who books my band I said you know do I
have any Sundays off I figured Sunday
still part of the weekend maybe he hangs
up there on Sunday to you she said she
found me a couple Sundays and I said
okay I'm gonna go find this Roger Kelly
guy she was where I want to go with you
now here's the problem she's white not
that I have a problem with that but a
black man walked with a white woman walk
into a plan bar right could be more of
it yeah yeah might find them sooner than
you want so um I said I said you know
marry and she said no no I want to go I
said I know you know you got your own
risk she said all right so we drove up
there this particular Sunday evening
it's about an hour and a half from my
house and my guy gave me perfect
directions there's the place right there
boom we locked the car I walk up these
little steps and I told her I said look
I'm gonna walk in first you you walked
right in behind me if I turn around and
face you start running and I'll be
behind you and she says all right let's
go so we walk in by 7:30 on a Sunday
evening place was practically empty I
was saying maybe no more than six or
seven people in there a couple guys in
the back playing pool a guy at you
sitting at the bar and the guy told me
the
this was a Klan bar and what he meant by
Klan bar is the clan doesn't own it
that's where they hang out he described
it to me then when you walk in the door
to your left would be a row of booths
and the first two booths closest to the
door we come in are reserved for the
Klan so now you know I looked over there
and nobody was sitting there so I'm
looking around see if I recognize Roger
Kelly and I didn't see but it looked
like him which did not mean that some of
these people were in Klan but I figured
out what an answer my right was a um a
long bar behind the bar was a mirror and
scotch tape to the mirror was a picture
an article from the Washington Post
newspaper had a picture of Roger Kelly
they'd interviewed him about something
the n-double-a-cp
was suing them over some kind of
cross-burning ceremony or something and
I recognized the article I said wow you
know and there's a big confederate flag
on the back wall like you have the US
flag right there so I know I knew I was
in the right place or the wrong place
but now you wanna look at it right so I
didn't see anybody look like Roger Kelly
I figure no I drove an hour and a half
to get up here you know I don't want to
go home empty-handed
but I didn't want to just walk up to
somebody say hey scuse me sir you in the
Klan so I said you know Mary and I are
standing in the middle of this bar
basically looking stupid and not knowing
what to do so I said come on Mary let's
go over there and sit in one of those
first two booths because if the plan is
in here they will come to us and then
we'll know and then we can ask them hey
you know we want to see Roger Kelly so
woman over him was sat down nobody
bothered us everything was cool
eventually we might read it over to the
bar I chatted up the guy sitting next to
me like I was lost in some directions
very nice gave me directions
we failed so we left the next morning
Mary walks out of my house I gave her a
Rodger Keller's number Monday morning I
said give him a call
I said tell him that you're working for
somebody who's writing a book on the
Klan would he consent to sitting down
with your boss and giving him an
interview however do not tell mr. Kelly
that I'm glad if he asked you know
don't lie to him but don't lose to it
don't give him reason to be curious she
understood and the reason why I did not
want him to know that was a I figured
you know if he knew that um he may not
give me the interview but if he agreed
to do the interview then also he would
see that I'm black 20 when he meets me
and he could decide right then and there
if he wants to continue it or not but I
want him to see me first secondly um if
he agreed to do the interview knowing
that I was black he may have different
answers prepared in the interim then he
would have for a white interviewer as
opposed to a black interviewer so I want
to be spontaneous candid so she
understood and that she called him and
he agreed to do the interview so we set
it up for the motel above the silver
dollar lounge up there in Frederick
Maryland and 5:15 on a Sunday afternoon
and Mary and I got there oh man I don't
know several hours early um I gave her
some money sent her down the hall to get
to us and sort of pop out of the Machine
put it in the ice bucket fill it with
ice get it all cold so I an active odd
to offer on mr. Kelly a beverage a cold
beverage I had no idea what this man
would do once he laid eyes on me I saw
that I was black we come in the room
will he attack me or would he walk away
you know but didn't even I want to be
hospitable so she got the soda pop put
an ice bucket set on the dresser now
just by happenstance the way the room is
laid out if you are standing in the
hallway in the doorway of the room
looking into the room
you cannot see what's in the room is to
literally walk in the door and turn to
your right and the rooms laid out back
there so there's no way if you know
who's in the room standing in the
hallway
and it's like took advantage of that I
took the lamp cables to the lamp off and
put it in the most obscure corner of the
room I put a chair on one side for me
and a chair on the other side for mr.
Kelly and I had a little bag beside it
like duffel bag and in my bag I had a
cassette recorder blank cassette tapes
and copy of the Bible because the Ku
Klux Klan claims to be a Christian
organization and they claim that the
Bible preaches racial separation now
I've read through the Bible I've never
seen that in there so I want to be able
to pull out my Bible when he brings it
up and say here mr. Kelly show me please
in this King James Version chapter and
verse where it says blacks and whites
must be separate so I'm all prepared
right right on time at 5:15 knock on the
door
I'm seated there where you can't see me
into you come in the room and there he
hops up and I am by the way Mary's white
and as I mentioned before so she goes
around the corner opens the door in
walks what is known as the grand night
honk the nighthawk in Klan terminology
means bodyguard security so a grand
night honk ooh get my aims if their
names are so ridiculous cyclopses trans
and wizards oh it goes on and on it goes
on uh of course a grand club brand clay
be grand Magi all kind of stuff anyway
so the Grand Night Hawk which means
slightly guarded the grand dragon like
an imperial Nighthawk bee's body like an
Imperial wizard and walks into this
grand Night Hawk he's wearing military
camouflage and on one side of his chest
is that clan emblem a red circle white
cross blood drop on the other side are
the initials KKK and embroidered on his
beretta said Knights of the Ku Klux Klan
and on his hip he have a semi-automatic
handgun in a holster he comes in and mr.
Kelly is walking directly behind him in
a dark blue suit and tie and when the
Nighthawk turned the corner and saw me
he just froze and mr. Killian that
really
that his Nighthawk has stopped short and
he slammed into his back and knocked him
forward and so they're stumbling around
regaining their balance and looking all
around the room and I'm just watching
watching them and I just see the
apprehension in their faces you know I
could read it you know if they were they
were thinking did the desk clerk give us
the right room number you know or just
an ambush and what's going on here so I
stood up and I displayed the palms of my
hands as to say hey I'm unarmed and I
walked forward I stuck out my right hand
I said hi mr. Kelly I'm Darrell Davis
and he shook my hand he shook my hand
and the Nighthawk shook my hand so so
far so good I'm doing I'm doing well I
said come on in come on in have a seat
please
mr. Kelly sat down even better and the
Nighthawk stood at attention then mr.
Kelly's right sanyas sit down officer
them right and mr. Kelly says to me mr.
Davis do you have any form of
identification I said sure I produced my
wallet and I handed him my driver's
license he looked at he goes oh you live
on such-and-such Street in Silver Spring
now this had me a little concerned why
is this man really must-read address all
he has to do let's look at my name look
at my picture match it up to me and give
me back my license URI is like looking
at my address is she gonna come burn
across in my lawn what's up so I did not
want to let him know that he had you
know unnerved me a little bit I want to
let him know under no circumstances are
you to come to my house uninvited with
any known nefarious intentions so I said
to him I said yes mr. Kelly that is
where I live and you live that and I
named his house number and his Street
and that the warmer God given me that
way I was implying hey you know you know
where I live I know where you live
if you come visit me I'm gonna come
visit you so they were so you know we're
gonna confine all this visiting to this
motel room so he smiled he nodded his
head like he understood
and I did not find out that day it was
several months down the road that I had
been presumptuous I had no reason to
fear mr. Kelly coming to my house to do
anything stupid what had happened was
one of his Klan members lived right down
the road from me I didn't know that mr.
Kelly would have to travel down my
street to get into that neighborhood
where this clan member lived he simply
recognized the name of the street that
was it
pure Cohen so he wasn't trying to
threaten no not at all not at all
so um you know and today that same Klan
member is in a federal prison he'll be
there for a long time he would later
commit a hate crime which landed him the
federal penitentiary so um anyway we got
on with his interview and within 10
minutes mr. Kelly let me know why he
could hate people like like me black
people are inferior we're prone to crime
there we were criminals that is why
there are more blacks in prison than
whites now that's a half truth there are
indeed more blacks in prison than white
people it's not because we were prone to
crime like you said it's because of
inequity in our judicial system where
whites in the same predicament either
don't get the same jail time or don't go
to jail or whatever anyway so I'm a
criminal I also said that black people
are lazy we don't want to work while we
prefer to skim the government welfare
system we're looking for handouts and
freebies and all that where white people
you know you know they they work etc and
also this book called the bell curve had
just recently come out and yeah yeah you
know the one yeah exactly
so you know he jumped on that and he
said well you know it's a known fact you
know they say the world's biggest
Authority is they you know you never see
who they is right they say that uh you
know black people have have smaller
brains than white people and that's why
their IQ is not as high
so I guess the bigger the brain the more
intelligent you are so now I'm sitting
there listening to this guy tell me that
I'm a criminal and I'm lazy and on
welfare and my brain is smaller than his
what he was saying was indeed offensive
but here's the difference between me and
most other people I did not take offense
to it I'll tell you why I don't take
offense to it why should I be offended
by somebody who knows nothing about me
he only met me ten minutes ago
he sees the color of my skin and has
made this assessment so why should I
take offense to somebody who's telling a
lie I just let him roll along with it
where did you develop this kind of
clarity but it's very unusual to not be
offended when someone's judging you
instantly in saying disparaging things
about everyone mm-hm
that looks anything like you just right
off the cuff freely right in front of
you how did you develop this clarity to
just not be offended by that because it
didn't make sense what he was saying of
course so I figured you know how could I
be offended by somebody who's who's all
twisted right you know who obviously
doesn't have the the foresight to see
that he's wrong I want to learn more
about this where it's coming from and so
now see that's what usually stops a
conversation and then and then people
get into combat yes you know and then it
goes nowhere so I was not offended by
sudden roll on with it and then when he
finished you know and he was he was
proud of him you know explained to me
you know why in the stance I so you know
when will mr. Kelly I mean you know I'm
not gonna be straight up with you I
don't have a criminal record I have
never been on welfare I've never
measured my brain but I'm sure it's the
same size as anybody else's you know
whatever it would go on well every now
and then the cassette would run out of
tape right and I'd reach down into my
badge and a lot of fresh cassette or mr.
Kelly would pound the table mr. Davis
the Bible says I reach down pull up the
Bible every time I reach down like this
to get the Bible or the cassette out of
the bag
Leonid Hawk would reach up onto his hip
right now
yes that was cool I mean I got that
that's his job
his job is to protect his boss he has no
idea what's in my bag that's a little
distracting though isn't it
well yeah but you know I realize that
these people are afraid of me right okay
so you know I had to be cool I'm not
afraid of them right so I have to be
cool but but be transparent all right so
you know he's doing his job and just
like you know when will you get put well
you know maybe you don't get pulled over
as much as I do right by the cops
tonight
but you know I can tell you right now
you know when when you get pulled over
in a and a cop tells you to get your
license or whatever and you you send the
glove is in the glove box and you reach
he gets a little more tighter on his hat
you know he's protecting himself so the
night hopper was doing that and I got
that so um you just kept happening and
after a while he realized there was no
threat in the bag and I went in and out
of the bag and I don't didn't move he
was relaxed just over an hour into this
interview there was a sudden a very
quick I mean less than a second noise in
the room which that was it
and it happened so fast out of nowhere
that my ear could not discern what it
was I just came out of the blue and I'm
sitting closer than you and I are right
now the table was smaller to mr. Kelly
and and and the Nighthawk alert was here
and was right there and I flew up out of
my chair hit the table um because my ear
could not discern what the noise was I
perceived it to be an ominous
threatening noise and I knew I knew for
a fact that mr. Kelly had made this
noise where did it come from why did he
make it um and how did I know that he
made it
I knew that because I didn't make it so
you know you know if you if you don't
want to accept responsibility or you
know you're not responsible what do you
do you assign blame
alright and um so I scooped out of my
chair hit the table and my mind was
racing what did I just did what did I
just say the cause mr. Kelly to go off
and make some threatening noise you know
I instantly put everything in
perspective we're enemies he's a head of
the clan I'm a black guy and now you
know and then I I heard that former
classrooms voice in my head Darrell do
not fool with Roger Kelly he will kill
you so I didn't want to die and in that
split second I had gone into a survival
mode and when you fear for your life
that's what you do what was the noise
I'm gonna taking us out yeah that was it
and because it was unexpected and was so
short I couldn't discern it I you know I
I went into self-protect mode and I
can't hit the table well when you fear
for your life as I said you know you go
into survival mode and in survival mode
you know you're only you can only do
like one of four things some people they
just pass out they faint because the
fear is so great their brain cannot
process it and it shuts down and they
pass out other people they their muscles
contract they get tense and they can't
move and you can be punching them
kicking them and they won't even be
deflecting the blows they're all
constricted that's called paralysis by
fear that you're too afraid to move the
third thing people will do is to run
away from whatever the fear is and that
is your best option when something
scares you that bad take off separate
yourself as quickly as you can from that
fear but as much distance between you
and the fear as you can and that would
have been my choice had it been an
option but it was not an option for me
because you cannot outrun a bullet and
in a motel room right so I was not armed
my secretary was not armed
the only person who I knew for sure was
armed was the Nighthawk you know you can
see his gun right there
and I didn't know if if mr. Kelly had a
weapon up under his suit jacket or not
all I knew was I don't want to die today
so I chose the fourth option which was
to do a preemptive strike you get them
before they get you
so when I flew out of my chair I was
like dive across the table I was going
to grab mr. Kelly grab the Nighthawk and
slammed him down to the ground and take
away the Nighthawks gun whoa
no it was gonna happen that quickly okay
well I think pretty fast sometimes a
little too fast but I'm glad I hit the
table because I'm looking right into his
eyes trying to figure out like what did
you do I didn't say one word to this guy
but my eyes had locked with his eyes I
was like I gotta see right through him
and I let my eyes do the talking I knew
he could hear my eyes um with my eyes
was shouting at him saying what did you
just do well his eyes had fixated on my
eyes he didn't say a word either and but
I could read his eyes his eyes are
saying to me what did you just do and
the Nighthawk had his hand on his gun
looking at both of us like would either
one of y'all just do Mary was sitting to
my left on top of the dresser for there
were no more chairs and she realized
what had happened and she began
explaining it to us when it happened
again
the ice in the ice bucket had begun to
melt oh Jesus and the cans shifted down
the ice so the tension was so thick yo
get the ice in the bucket wasn't just
like a normal like if there was ice in
the bucket right now just noise yeah you
were just on edge absolutely absolutely
and the cans are just falling on me how
long and you'd been talking for an hour
yeah yeah and now they've been sitting
there before mr. Kelly came in okay and
we know we forgotten about it right I
offered him a drink when he first got
there and he said now but um what I was
gonna get too is like so you're talking
to him for an hour and in that hour is
the tension the tension is not being
alleviated at all he's explaining
everything to you
he's telling you his theories you're
being very calm and just letting him
speak yeah but you are still so on edge
just being across from this guy that
that sound right because it came out of
nowhere you know it came out of nowhere
and I mean yeah you know the detention
hadn't had had de-escalated all that
kind of stuff as we got more into the
hour but I think you know we each were
aware you know this is not a normal
situation yeah you know black behind a
Klan leader so you know each each one
was still you know a little wary of the
other kind of thing but we were mutually
respectful okay
so then it happened again and yeah we
began laughing we began laughing all of
us and how ignorant we had all been I
won't say that this was a learning
moment but it was a teaching moment and
the learning would come later the the
what was taught was this all because
some foreign an underscore highlight
circled the word foreign entity of which
we were ignorant that been the bucket of
ice cans of soda entered into our little
comfort zone via the noise that it made
we became fearful an accusatory of each
other so the lesson taught is ignorance
breeds fear we fear those things we
don't understand all right if you do not
keep that fear in check
that fear in turn will escalate and
breed hatred because we hate those
things that frightened us if you don't
check that hatred it in turn will
escalate and breed destruction we want
to destroy those things that we hate why
because they frighten us but guess what
they may have been harmless and we were
just ignorant and we saw the whole chain
unravel to almost completion the last
component being
destruction that stopped just short of
that had I pounced across the table and
hurt one of them or had the Nighthawk
drawn his gun and shot one of us you
know that that would have been the
destruction fortunately that did not
happen we did see that that whole chain
unraveled to completion three years ago
on August 12th 2017 in Charlottesville
Virginia okay which is like two hours
from my house on August 12 2017 in
Charlottesville Virginia there was a lot
of ignorance in Charlottesville there
was a lot of fear in Charlottesville
there was a lot of hatred in
Charlottesville and what did it
culminate in it culminated in
destruction when a white supremacist got
inside his vehicle and drove full force
into a crowd of counter protesters
trying to murder them he succeeded in
injuring 20 and and murdering a young
lady named Heather hire so that that
whole chain is there if you want to
solve this problem of racism we need to
stop focusing on the symptoms don't
worry about the fear don't worry about
the hatred those are just symptoms like
putting a bandaid on cancer you've got
to go down to the bone and treat it at
its source the source of all this is
ignorant ignorance can be cured the cure
for ignorance is called education so you
fits the ignorance there's nothing to
fear but you fear what you don't know
when you fear the ignorance you know
something there's nothing to fear if
there's nothing to fear then there's
nothing to hate if there's something to
hate there's nothing to destroy so we
need to focus on the ignorance and we
address it with exposure and education
and conversation we spend way too much
time in this country talking about the
other person talking at the other person
talking past the other person why not
just spend a little bit time talking
with the other person so
I said you know we carried on with the
conversation had a good time
you know nobody got hurt everybody
laughed and I thank them shook their
hands and they told me to keep in touch
I'm thinking keeping shush
you guys are homies yeah yeah but I did
you know I called him say hey man I'm
playing in your County come on see me
how long did you guys talk that day oh
maybe I don't know two and a half hours
some like that did at the end after the
ice that everything's sort of loosen up
oh yeah yeah yeah so the laughter and
then did the conversation loosen then
the conversation loosened then I mean
you know it wasn't like you know we all
hug each other but though did you offer
any counter to the things he was saying
like yeah Charles Murray stuff
absolutely absolutely
how did he respond to that he said well
yeah I don't know about that you know I
know you know that you know these guys
are doctors and dah dah dah dah you know
so you know he looks to Authority of
course but of course if you find
Authority in the in the other direction
what something's wrong with them
you know so you take a narrative you
know that fits that fits your narrative
so like for information yeah
so for example he did bring up that the
Bible preaches racial separation and I
gave him the Bible I said show me where
so I forgot now these that chapter in
verse 4 I think it's in Leviticus and
I'm gonna paraphrase he pointed you this
verse and I read it and it said
something to the effect of our lamb
should not lay with the wolf I said what
does that mean Kelly he says what means
the two different species should not lay
together as a hold on I said blacks and
whites are not two different species we
are the same species two different
colors oh no no no you know we're
different species so you know he takes
what he wants and twists it to fit the
narrative okay so
he had to say I thanked him I began
calling him he talked to my kids he'd
been the Nighthawk um III would invite
him down to my house he came down to my
house with the Nighthawk Wow and I
thought was sit on my couch next to him
sometimes not help get bored right and
pull out his gun and twirl it on it and
but what the fuck I felt I felt very
comfortable with with them you know
after time and so they at that point I
would begin inviting over some of my
black friends some of my Jewish friends
some other white friends just like let
them know in advance sometimes sometimes
not so does not they say when they come
over they see a Grand Wizard and a
Nighthawk well or a dragon is he a
dragon our wizard you know who still a
dragon at that point okay okay and
sometimes they freaked out and my band
oh my god my band uh you know we I have
a band van so the old my house get in
the van we'll all right at the gig
together especially it was far away and
sometimes I'd want to stop at some Klan
rally on my way to a gig and so so my
god said yeah I'll say what I just meet
you there yeah another ride with Jesus
Christ see this became a full time here
Jack figured it did well how much how
quickly did it escalate so it went from
this you you obviously had some you were
compelled almost obsessed to meet this
guy and get to the bottom of this thing
that had been bothering you since you
were young years old and and because my
relationship with him was really growing
it was turning into a friendship I mean
you know I'm not gonna lie I'm I
genuinely liked this guy and I could see
him beginning to like me a lot um I did
not like his ideology but I saw the
human Humanity in him
yeah and he was seeing the same thing in
me we both want the same things all
right and I and I began interviewing a
lot of other clan people from different
you know areas up north down South
Midwest etc some would talk to me
would not talk to me some want to fight
me you know I I when I ran the whole
gamut and I put it all in my book now
I was seeing 14 over like two years he
come down to my house or we go out and
have lunch or dinner together Wow yeah
and but during those two years and by
the end of two years he was coming to my
house by himself he trusted me that much
no nighthawk you drive on down right and
um by the end of two years he had not
invited me to his house you know after
two years he got promoted from from our
Grand Dragon state leader to Imperial
wizard national leader at that point he
began inviting me to his house Wow he
was the man in charge right so I go to
his house I would see his clan then we'd
have his clan meetings they have a Dan
at the house well yeah they call it a
den you know it's a room you know it's
all that certainly without plan altar
and chairs
what's a clan altar look like it's a
table that has a plan flag across it has
that big red circle with a white cross
and blood drop then they have a candles
things like that and a note and a cross
and the cross has some either candles on
it looks like a flame or light bulbs so
anyway and and a sword then across the
table I take pictures take some notes
and then he began inviting me to Klan
rallies so yeah yeah and so I go to
these Klan rallies and it had this big
wooden cross the wooden cross is wrapped
in burlap the burlap has been soaked and
what they call Klan Cologne which is
actually diesel fuel oil kerosene and
the plants men and clans women are all
in their robes and hoods and they have
these torches the torches are lit and
they walk in a Sano big wide circle
around this cross which is in the center
and then either the Imperial wizard or
the Grand Dragon well will it will shout
you know Klansmen halt and they'll all
stop in place Klansmen face the cross
and
I'll turn in and face the inner circle
and then he'll say for my god and they
all repeat for my god and bow for my
race for my race for my country for my
country for my clan for my clan white
power white power
Klansmen approach the cross and they all
close in and now they're all right there
at the base of the cross Klansmen light
the cross and they drop their torches at
the foot of the cross and whoosh this
thing is a flame and they stand there
and admire this burning cross and then
they give some speeches from the podium
and then they have hot dogs and
hamburgers and the rally is over you
know and I'm sitting there watching this
I'm taking pictures taking notes and how
did it feel to be there watching all
this uh it's definitely so different but
you know I knew what to expect pretty
much was I mean I read all these books
yeah so you know I mean I know that's
what they do it ran rallies it burned
crosses now I love expressing to you
that I learned there two times two
occasions upon which they set the cross
the flame as they put it they have a
cross burning and across lighting the
difference being across burning is when
they take a 5 or 10 foot cross wrapping
that burlap soaked in kerosene and and
put it in your lawn because you're an
interracial couple you're gay you're
Jewish in a white neighborhood whatever
the deal is that is meant as as
intimidation it's a warning we know who
you are
cease and desists move out if you don't
next time we come we mean business
notice in a bomb your house or something
okay when they do that that's called a
cross burning
all right across lighting is when they
do love if they 30 or 20 or 30 foot
cross at a ceremony and they parade
around it and give a lecture that's got
a cross lighting and that's what you
want to I wanted the cross lighting how
often they do those things as often as
they want and several times a year what
do they talk about like when they have
meeting um the future of the white race
you know and what they want you know and
and with the Constitution Gaming to use
them this is a white man's land this
land was built by white people the
Constitution was signed by white by
white men this is their country you know
immigration whatever
issues are that the Browning of America
ISM is a big topic or white genocide and
same thing unless a white genocide they
mean their race is getting smaller
through miscegenation hmm so you know
that is the table that they cover um
it's pretty it's pretty interesting but
check this out though our relationship
would grow and grow and eventually mr.
Kelly you know yeah well he got there he
began he'd be the Rope sneak right in
yeah he began believing whoa that's him
right there in that photo with you
that's them right there and it's grand
dragon robe this is his imperial wizard
robe right here
and he gave his robe in his robe if he
no longer believes and what it stands
for
Wow and and how many years is it there
it is a hundred years to take before you
just by being around talking to him for
him it's probably like around maybe six
and a half seven six and a half seven
nine some summers as a matter of months
a matter of a year or two years and so
what'd you just talk about the Hat
that's the hood yeah oh Jesus and you
see this is this top part is the hood
and this lower portion here that's
what's called them the mask and remember
someone anonymity they don't want you to
know who they are they wear this in the
house which is attached by three snaps
or velcro just remove it they don't fear
in the face is exposed as you saw in
that picture so what what is it like you
said you guys got closer
you said you became more and more
friends you started visiting each other
yeah did he ever say you know I'm
starting to think this is bullshit yeah
but how did he say it um he called me up
one day and he told me yeah I want to
talk to you about and I said okay you
want to meet for dinner I said sure so I
drove to Frederick and met him and said
me they said you know
I'm quitting the clan I'm leaving it and
he's the top dog who's top dog you gave
it all up and here's the thing um he did
a smart thing you did a good thing he
didn't hand it down he shut it down Wow
yeah um you know did he convince the
other people in the clan that whether
they had their choice to do whatever
they wanted to do right a lot of them
left a lot of them left as well then
there were those who tried to keep it
going but you know but failed
did he use you as an example when he was
speaking to them they knew why he did it
he receives him hate me he began
receiving some email from from some of
his own members anonymously the same
kind of hate mail that at one time he
would send out to people Anonymous was
nothing back to him you know yo you're
in bed with Darrell Davis you're a
nigger lover all that kind of stuff
unsigned you know the same stuff that he
would put out to other people and so he
he began seeing himself in the mirror
and then so that was that was very
crucial and and I have repeated this
process many times with different people
do what it what is the process do you
went like when you're talking about like
the charles murray stuff the bell curve
stuff how do you refute that what are
you saying to him I'm saying him look
mr. Murray anytime you want to prove
something you find something that fits
your narrative yes you can find some
black person who has are very low like
you okay if I'm gonna if I work for Ford
and and I want and I want to prove that
my car is better than Chevrolet then I'm
gonna find a Chevrolet that isn't that
doesn't run very well hmm you know I'm
gonna do it that way so I I refute it
mr. Murray's and his uh his partner but
you guys who wrote the book are there
they're there documentation and and I'll
and see they they they go buy things
that they can see and understand I'm
gonna give you an example of something
that's gonna
and help you understand this Cyclops was
riding around in my car one day with me
he's sitting in my passenger seat right
and we're driving I'm driving wrong and
somehow we got on the topic of black
crime and he made a statement he said
well you know you know we all know they
say that again that they authority say
that that black people have a gene in
them that makes them violent and I'd
heard that before from other Klan people
you know that's one of their narratives
and you know the wild black savage kind
of thing and I said what are you talking
about he says well who's doing all the
drive-bys and carjackings in Southeast
he was referring to Southeast Washington
DC which is predominantly black area
some whites lived there it's
predominately black very high crime
ridden I said okay it's black people I
said but that's what lives there I said
who's doing all the crime in Bangor
Maine white people because that's what
lives there I said you know you're not
even considering the demographics is
that no no you all have this gene in
blah blah blah so you know he's gonna
shut me down and I said look he's right
here I said look I'm as black as anybody
you know I said I have never done a
drive-by I am never gonna carjacking how
do you explain that this man did not
wait one second he answered me like that
he said your gene is latent hasn't come
out yet how do you argue with somebody
who's that far and I feel right I mean
you can't even bite into that and chew
on it right so I'm dumbfounded and I'm
speechless I'm just driving along he's
over here all smooth and you see nothing
to say so my thought about it and I said
you know they say I use his authority I
said they say that all white people have
a gene that makes him a serial killer is
that how do you figure that I said name
me three black serial killers he
couldn't do it
here I'm gonna give you one I named one
for him I say here just just name me two
he couldn't do it I said Charles Manson
Jeffrey Dahmer Henry Lee Lucas John
Wayne Gacy Albert DeSalvo the Boston
Strangler Ted Bundy as David Berkowitz
Son of Sam
Ed Gein Ed Gein right Ed Gein and his
crazy machines to skin people okay I
said son they're all yeah he said you
know I've never killed anybody I said
you're just hasn't come out yet that's
stupid
I said well duh I said you're right it
is stupid I said but it's no more stupid
me to say that about you
than what you said about me and he got
very quiet but I mean you could almost
see it Joe this one here is ending yeah
and now he's thinking about it and then
he changed the subject
but within four or five months he left
the Klan Wow based on that conversation
Wow and his robe was the first row by
ever got Wow so he came to you and gave
you the robe we said first he said no he
didn't come to me give me the rope he
called me and and I wasn't in that area
and yeah and I he said you won't you
want to get together I got together with
him and he went to go over to the
courthouse for something he'd been in
some kind of trouble he would go pick up
something in the courthouse so I gave
him a ride over there and he told me he
was he was like with the Klan you know
and he thought a lot about what I said
and I said what are you gonna do with
your stuff he said trash it I said I
said no don't don't trash it I said give
it to me he says you want me you want my
room and all my class stuff and I said
yeah he goes why why would you want that
I didn't know why but something told me
just take it there I'll just take it and
I said I don't know what I'm gonna do
with the bus yeah I said yard I do want
it so we went back to his apartment now
I've never been in his apartment that
I'd met him outside outside in the
driveway or whatever a parking lot and I
said come on in and so I'm walking up
the stairs
them to the department I'm thinking you
know I'm not getting set up here you
know but I walked on in and his fiancee
was sitting on the couch glance woman
I've seen her before and sat down and
talked with her and he went down the
hall through this room he came back when
we came back he got a hefty trash bag
went back there again
and came back with this trash pile all
loaded up and his robe his hood clanton
belt buckle
never clam down oh yeah that plant I
Clips all kinds of stuff man and his
certificate of membership um all kind of
stuff in this baton gave it to me and I
said okay thank you you know and I I
didn't know why I wanted it but I just
knew I should have it well first of all
is history okay and you don't destroy
history the good the bad the ugly in the
shameful is still American history and
the KKK I've said it before is as
American as baseball apple pie and
Chevrolet you know it's a shameful part
of our history but it is our history
nonetheless now I know what I'm doing
this stuff I got my 501c3
I'm gonna have a museum one day put all
this stuff in there Wow what's a 501c3
so it makes you tax exempt ah yeah KKK
conversion museum yeah yeah pictures of
you with the dudes right next to the
robe and each most of them most of them
I do and so I began collecting all this
kind of stuff
this is well here this one this is a
grand dragon robe Green is the sign for
the Grand Dragon and Confederate flags
here you know plant patches whose is
that
who gave you that this guy Bob white
Robert white Robin white used to be the
Grand Dragon of Maryland for another
Klan group which was a rival to Roger
Kelly's group all right when I when I
first heard a Bob white I was in my late
teens and he I heard him I heard about
him on the news he had been busted
arrested and put in jail for conspiring
to bomb his synagogue in Baltimore upon
Liberty Road the Liberty Rose a
synagogue and he was convicted he went
to prison for four years this is before
I started writing the books all the time
sorry I just remembered him and then he
got out after doing his time continued
running the Klan and then some years
later he got busted again assault with
intent to murder two black men with a
shotgun all right
understand something as a plan leader
you don't make any money or not a lot
unless you're embezzling money from the
dues a lot of people do that that's what
causes these splinter groups if you're a
leader like a wizard or a dragon you
might get like a small stipend out of
the dues but not enough to pay your rent
or put fooling your table so you have to
have a regular job you know Cyclops
wizard dragon whatever is all just
titles like Boy Scout leader you have to
have a regular job to pay your rent and
mortgage this man's regular job when he
was doing all this nonsense following
places and stuff Baltimore City police
officers Wow this is his police officer
uniform okay yeah he was not an
undercover cop in the Klan gathering
intelligence it was a bonafide Klansmen
on the Baltimore City police force okay
uh and they're more they're more okay um
but he went on this guy was vehemently
vehemently anti-semitic and racist and
very very violent but he went on to
become one of my best friends and he
gave me his Klan robe his police uniform
and I do a lot of lecturing all over the
country and stuff did he quit the police
force he was forced to quit the police
force or be fired the police force
Baltimore City police force I mean even
just last year they had a consent decree
from the Department of Justice against
them they are very racist and very
corrupt what they would do is they would
turn up
and I to the clansmen on the force
because you know as a police officer
you're not allowed to belong to any
subversive groups alright then we turned
a blind eye as long as the guys would
not bring unwarranted attention to the
to the department and I just keep keep
your stuff you know whatever well you
know he wouldn't get him busted for for
planting a bomb near synagogues and and
you know firing a shotgun and all that
kind of stuff at black people um so they
they you know they get in you know hey
you know you got a yeah you got to
retire or we put off the force actually
you you causing those too much publicity
this is before he left the Klan yeah so
what did he do after he did that well
get another job another job he began
dealing in a homing pigeons ridiculous
way to transmit information it's perfect
for someone's in something like the
class but job you know I mean you have
to work yeah and but I'll tell you
something though not all of them in fact
probably not most of them but some of
the of the hardest-working people that
I've ever seen in my life has been in
the plan I'm serious work I mean working
hard you know to make a living and
support are their families is there a
universal factor like when you talk
about how they got involved in it is the
neighborhood is it people that they knew
they are family well let me give you an
example of why people join the plan
they're different reasons in some cases
it's my grandfather was in the Klan
my daddy was in the Klan so I'm in the
Klan and my kid doesn't be in the Klan
it's a family tradition right passed
down and when you are dealing with
somebody with with that kind of tie that
you know a generational thing it makes
it a little longer for them to come out
because it's hard to break family
tradition right another reason why
people join
you take a depressed town I'd like a
coal mining town in West Virginia or
Scranton Pennsylvania some like that
where people who are not racist they
they're hard workers they did call all
their lives
grandfather dug hole father does go now
you don't though did cold after high
school so all you know if I were to hand
one of those people a vacuum cleaner
I say vacuum this rug they wouldn't know
how to do it all they know is digging
hole and they're happy they are making
their paycheck they're feeding their
family paying their rent whatever you
know they're not concerned about
people's color they're happy but then
the company gets greedy and decides hey
you know what we can save money make a
lot more money if we lay off our our
employees and hire some of these are
these are immigrants whether they're
legal or illegal because they'll work
for for less than half of what we're
paying our people right and so they lay
off these people and how are these
people who just came over to the country
looking for work and and they pay the
next to nothing so now these white
people who would never racist or out of
a job the bank is going to foreclose on
their trailer or their house or whatever
they can put food on their table the
Klan sees these things and the Klan will
come into a depressed town like that and
hold a rally and see the blacks have the
n-double-a-cp the Jews had the ADL you
know nobody stands up for the white man
but the Klan come join us
we'll get your job back you know you
that was your job your jobs not gone but
you're gone and now some some nigger or
some spics got your job you know well
why is that come join us so these people
have said we're never racist you know
they began thinking well you know
they're they're right my job is still
there and I worked that job for 25 years
you know and I got laid off for no
reason and someone else is doing my job
so what do I have to lose
give me an application and they sign up
so they're like you know coerced into
this group they may be a little easier
to come out you know you're talking with
them then
third reason why people would join if
somebody relocates to a town that is
very clan oriented a lot of people who
kindly don't live there and stuff you
know if you want to do business in that
town
you've got to assimilate you know you
join the local Country Club local
Chamber of Commerce and the local KKK so
you know those are those different
reasons why people will uh will join and
depending again you know depend upon how
strong the ties are why they join can
determine the long their longevity or
their or their their hold on it
what is the one that took you the
longest to crack well I'll be honest
with you I never set out to convert
anybody and even though in the media it
will say black musicians in first 200
Klansmen or X amount of Klan members I
didn't convert anybody
I didn't even convert one of them I will
say that I am the impetus for over 200
leaving the plan yeah I know that for a
fact
and people have told me yeah you know
I'm out of because of you things like
that but I did not convert them they
converted themselves I gave them reason
to think about their direction in life
and they thought about it and thought
you know I need a better path and this
is the way to go because what would
happen will be this it's like you know
when you when you believe in something
um some people just believe in it just
because it's it's that person saying it
right like in a way we have a current
president we're in no matter what he
says some people are gonna believe and
others are disbelieve all right um and
that and that can go for any president
really if you're a big fan no matter
what you do what you say you have a base
that's gonna believe you
so I would tell these people when I saw
fault with what they were saying in
their ideology I said well let me tell
you why I think this is incorrect and I
lay out the facts for them and then they
now then I can see it right then and
there when they go home that check it
out
and that rolls around in their head and
they began thinking you know Darryl does
have a point but he's black but he's
black but he does have a point but he's
black so even though they know it's true
they don't want to believe it was I'm
black so it's like that cognitive
dissonance thing going on so they have a
strand internal struggle and they have
to make up their own mind do I continue
living a lie or do I turn my life around
and live the truth well it's also Lewis
you're a very articulate guy and I'm
sure a lot of these people are not very
educated so the continued exposure to
you is probably confusing to them as
well because you're so good at forming
sentences and speaking in calm and you
know the words flow so smoothly out of
your mouth and you have these wonderful
it's wonderful grasp of the English
language they're probably like I think
this guy might be smarter than me let me
say something though don't be fooled you
know we think of Klan people I say we
are the people in general because most
of our exposure to it is is that the
Jerry Springer Show right or Geraldo
where they throw Cheerios time yeah
third grade dropout right on a thing
caricature yeah
and those are the types that you know
that they would bring on the show for
whatever reason and I know plenty of
those types trust me those stereotypes
do we exist but they can go anywhere
from third grade dropout all the way to
president of the united states president
warren g harding was sworn into the Ku
Klux Klan in the green room of the White
House what year was that whatever year
he was president so was my host 65 oh I
well we got 65 1920s right was he was he
with the tea with a tea down the dome
what it was um
President Harry Truman before Harry
Truman became president he was a member
of the Klan for a short time that's
right Harry Truman who an integrated the
army all right Wow
he joined for a short time
he didn't like it he got out um Supreme
Court justice Hugo black Hugo black was
in the Klan at the time he was appointed
to the Supreme Court he had to leave the
Ku Klux Klan to sit on this on the
Supreme Court as a Justice Morton more
recently um Senator Robert Byrd from
West Virginia who just died a few years
ago he was a Klansman in the 1940s he
was a grand legal Kleagle means a
recruiter grand mean state so he was a
recruiter for the state of West Virginia
a grand legal in the 1940s and then yo
he later renounced it and stuff yeah so
you know all kinds of educational
backgrounds particularly a long time ago
yeah yeah I mean it was considered the
an honorable white man Society at the
time you know they didn't allow women in
the Klan and they had a women's
auxiliaries now they allow women but
women is still a male chauvinistic
organization so women are making
progress even in the class oh yeah yeah
but but but they cannot hold the highest
offices they can't be a grand dragon or
dragging this when did you start on this
what year was it
I started how you know meeting them and
all yes or researching them just when
when did you start meeting them when G
when did you have this meeting after the
first the first friendly meeting that I
had with with the Klan was in the bar
that was 1983 but um so my first
encounter with the Klansmen was that the
year before and I didn't know he's the
Klansmen I beat him up so this but the
bar things at e3 yeah I was wondering it
if it was pre or post the Dave Chapelle
bit that's why and what's funny is you
know everybody asked me you know did you
see that yeah the Clayton Bigsby or
whatever yeah yeah you know they think
it's hilarious but I'm gonna tell you
something it's not hilarious okay Dave
Chappelle he's a comic genius he's great
okay and perhaps if I had never done
what I've done I find a lot of humor in
it yeah but I tell you what
he's never been to a Klan rally I have
I've been to plenty of them those things
are not funny
they are not funny okay they are a
pressure cooker waiting to go off and if
that fat was not really you know
released it's gonna explode and we saw
that in Charlottesville well you know
that he his joke was oh yeah and how
ridiculous it was yeah absolutely my
fault aligned yeah i'm not voting in
this black right exactly
I understand we've seen from your
perspective it's not funny yeah yeah
yeah I mean yeah I mean everything but
uh but you know we shouldn't take take
racism you know we need to take it more
seriously than we do and I'm gonna tell
you something our country I'm gonna tell
you where it's headed so you understand
our country can only become one of two
things it can become number one that
which we stand up I'm sorry that which
we sit back and let it become or number
two that which we stand up and make it
become so we are charged with this
question do I want to sit back and see
what my country becomes or do I want to
stand up and make my country become what
I want to see and I've chosen I've
chosen the latter but I don't like the
direction it's going in well you've
chosen a very noble not just the latter
but a very noble path I mean what you've
done is pretty incredible in the amount
of time and energy that's required for
you to get close to these guys and the
fact that you could be doing a lot of
the things you're a successful musician
yeah I'm sure you have friends I'm sure
you're busy but you chose to span an
extraordinary amount of time pursuing I
would much rather be on stage playing
music and making people happy and
closing the job up and dance and carry
on and sing along than them in attending
Klan rallies but I find it more and more
necessary because we have dropped the
ball you know the topic that you and I
are discussing right now you know 20 30
years ago would have been taboo talking
about on radio or whatever people people
did not want to discuss it hmm and you
know and I know we can talk about that
you keep in the closet
you know because out of sight out of
mind denial and and denying it does not
make it go away
you can't see it it's always there so
now we're forced to address it but let
me tell you where it's going which will
just what a lot people do not talk about
and don't understand well first of all
let's let's let's define what it is back
in the day there was only one group the
Ku Klux Klan they were the first and the
largest gang if you will of racists at
one point in time they had four million
members all right it's pretty big gang
Mama's on about in the 1920s and into
the early 30s how many people are even
in America in 1920 Oh more than that
left more than yeah but I mean how many
it wasn't even 100 million I don't even
know what Cindy I bet it's probably
about 80 90 million oh we can look at
first yeah because if there's 4 million
that's a straw Denari number and the
majority of them were in Indiana Indiana
Indiana yeah 110 million Wow and how
many four Lorien that's fucking crazy
yeah yeah so it's basically somewhere in
the neighborhood of four percent of the
entire population of the country was in
the fucking clan ya know at that time it
was called white supremacy because
that's what they believe in you know
this is our country we're in charge with
supreme didn't call it the Klan yeah it
was a plan but the ideology was called
white supremacy and a lot of history
started in 1865 a lot of violence a lot
of you know lynchings brahmins you know
dragging people behind vehicles all kind
of stuff began happening and oh if it
became a lot of baggage with the term
white supremacy where a lot of white
people did not like black people or did
not like Jewish people they did not want
to participate in in this night writing
you know lynchings and murder and all
the foul stuff either for for moral
reasons or legal reasons whatever that
the membership began dwindling who began
dropping out all right it was too too
violent for them this white supremacy
word became unpalatable and became
negative
when the membership decreased they had
to rebrand so they they changed it from
white supremacy to white separatism I'm
a white separatist I don't hate black
people or Jewish people I just love my
own lamps and Jews should be able to
have their own schools
their own neighborhoods their own
churches their own workplaces we should
be able to have ours and that way we
don't have to mix oh yeah yeah I like
that idea
sign me up I'm a white separatist ship
began increasing and of course you know
the more people you have somebody's mom
started acting up so here comes the
violence so now the term white supremacy
also became unpalatable and people began
dropping out so membership went down
again and then they had to rebrand next
they call themselves white Nationals or
white nationalists all right
now what is a nationalist a nationalist
is someone who loves their country like
the patriot so you're a nationalist I'm
a nationalist why do we have to say
white nationalist why don't you set my
nationalist right but no white
nationalist so yeah I love my country
and I'm white
sign me up here comes the violence so
once again they rebranded and now they
call it B all right and I hate to use a
cliche but as I say a rose by any other
name is what still a rose so you call
whatever you want to call it it's still
white supremacy do you think that
Charlotte was a wake up call
Charlottesville excuse me yes it was
from me because I knew that it still
existed but I didn't think they would
show themselves publicly like that and
the age of the Internet and walked down
the street with tiki torches let me tell
you something let me I'm gonna show you
something okay
okay the rally there was called unite
the right rally I know the guy who put
it on I know all the speakers there I
know them personally all right what was
your understanding as to why they were
having this big unite the right rally I
only knew of it peripherally I didn't
know why they were doing it I just had
probably heard it on the
or something like that went on and then
when I saw the KKK showing with those
guys the Charlottesville guys with the
torches with those KKK or was it another
white supremacy move all of the above
they had different different whose unite
to write all the different right-wing
groups came right League of the South
the Ku Klux Klan National Socialist
Movement our different entity Socialist
Movement yeah
the National social life with Nazis
exactly a necessarily yeah okay they
were there too now in the media they
they gave a reason as to why why were
they there what were they protesting
what was their reason for being there
and Charlottesville I have no idea okay
well if the media put out was they had
come together to protest the removal of
the Confederate statues okay you call
that yeah I remember they were tearing
down those statues right I had a
conversation with somebody about it
those statues most of them were very
cheaply made and he stood up during the
Civil Rights Minh right exactly yes yes
okay so that was not the reason why they
had the rally okay that's what the media
said okay any time okay
the reason why they had this rally there
yes there were some people who went
there to legitimately oppose the the
removal of those statutes robert e lee
and stonewall jackson whoever else but
the majority people who came there were
there to start the initially initial
steps of the race war Wyatt that's right
the race war okay the white supremacist
have been predicting and had been
preparing for a race war
just like Dylann roof was trying to
start the race whereas what he said when
he went to that black church and gunned
up the place a lot especially trying to
the guy who shot all those people in El
Paso
he said the race war all right here
here's what you know any time you want
to occupy a piece of public property
because you want to have a rally a
demonstration or even if you want to set
up a lemonade and hotdog stand
it was gonna be on public property you
must have a permit right you go down to
the city get an application state you
know fill out your name and state your
purpose
you cannot very well say on the
application I want to start a race war
you will not get the permit all right so
you you provide some quasi legitimate
excuse
my great-great-great ancestors fought in
the Confederacy that's my heritage I
don't want you messing with it okay
that's legitimate you sign off here's
your permit sir and now you can occupy
that corner of 12th and main from 12:00
noon to 4:00 p.m. or whatever okay so
they went through all the procedure they
legally got a permit to have their
United to write rally under false
pretense all right now two things
anybody who knows American history knows
that they were also blacks and also Jews
who fought in the Confederacy all right
the black slaves had to fight for their
slave owners in the south there were a
number of Jewish slave owners they
didn't want to give up that free labor
so blacks Jews and whites fought
together in the Confederacy against
blacks whites and jews in the Union my
great-great-great ancestors were slaves
who also fought in the Confederacy I
have ancestors who fought in the
Confederacy all right my parents are
from Virginia Roanoke and Salem I was
born in Chicago because that's where my
dad was working at the time but Virginia
is is was the seat of the Confederacy
all right so there are black people
today and some Jewish people who honor
the Confederacy they don't condone
slavery but they honor the Confederacy
because of their great great ancestors
they honor and house all like they have
Confederate France has taken place
mostly in the south so there's black
people in a Cell that have Confederacy
find tomorrow that you'll find them yeah
and no they don't
don't slavery they're just honoring the
Confederacy close your ancestors were
indicted or whatever I honor my
ancestors however I don't honor the
Confederacy me personally if some of the
blacks in Jews want to do that that's
their business
I don't do it so and ironically
ironically this is a historical fact the
Confederate Army was integrated the
Union Army was segregated all right
which don't make any sense okay
so here here you know we're we're we're
fighting to free slaves and then the
defender army has Blacks and Jews ensue
and uh and whites were fighting together
and the Union had them all segregated it
doesn't make sense but it does because
it's all so ridiculous yeah that's what
humans are exactly exactly you got it
you know irrationality yeah so okay now
if if Blacks and Jews and whites could
fight together a hundred and fifty years
ago why can't they march together in
2017 wouldn't it make more sense and
give more credibility to your cause if
your cause was truly to preserve those
statues why not invite descendents like
yourselves of Blacks and Jews to march
with you in Charlottesville and say hey
that's my heritage - leave it alone
would that not add more credibility that
certainly would but what what are the
numbers can you get even if you only got
five or ten right okay that still would
lend some credibility okay okay but
instead so they're claiming this is the
heritage instead of inviting including
Blacks and Jews they excluded them in
2017 so if Blacks and Jews wanted to
march they would not let them yeah
exactly I mean they're I don't know
there were any who did or did you
implicitly stated there's no white
people
this is unite though are united - right
okay you have white white supremacist
organizations
so instead of including Blacks and Jews
you know heritage should include
everybody in that heritage you talk
about the good you want to preserve the
Confederacy well guess what
there were blacks in the Confederacy you
know that that's historical fact they
were Jews in an in the Confederacy the
Confederacy was simply a reflection of
the south okay so instead of including
them they excluded them and they marched
through the University of Virginia
campus with their tiki torches and the
streets of Charlottesville yelling and
screaming anti-semitic and racial
epithets what does that tell you it
tells you their protests was not about
heritage it was about hate that's number
one number two nobody in Charlottesville
or anywhere else ever met their great
great great ancestors who fought in the
convince Confederacy right
those people were long dead and gone by
1865 and if you weren't even born then
right now you tell me but it's okay you
know you can honor people that you don't
know all right that's fine
but how do you honor your
great-great-great ancestors in the
Confederacy and at the same time you
dishonor the very ancestors who you do
know the very ones who raised you your
fathers your grandfathers and if you're
lucky enough you may have met your
great-grandfather these people many
fathers of these people in
Charlottesville many fathers
grandfathers and great-grandfather's
lost their lives fighting not in the
Confederacy but fighting in World War
two and who were they fighting in world
war two the nazis so how do you tell me
you're gonna honor your
great-great-great ancestors and you're
gonna walk down the streets of
Charlottesville side-by-side with people
wearing swastikas we went to war against
the Nazis why are you marching with
Nazis and flying swastikas now now wait
wait so is um what did the Nazis have to
do with our heritage right the not just
had no heritage in Charlottesville
in fact the Nazis weren't even in
existence during our Civil War Adolf
Hitler was not even born during our
Civil War so what were the Nazis doing
in shortest Ville
it wasn't about heritage it was about
hate and that's what the media failed to
tell us because what the media did was
they went to City Hall for this public
record
it's pulled pulled the permit and we oh
there they are to to protest the
statutes
I took it verbatim and reported like
that didn't do the background check now
was it a small percentage of them that
were the ones that were marching with
the torches and the swastikas now they
join into the entire group was the
entire group all about hate then I was
everybody was there I would say probably
about 95% of people there were over
about 8mm and so there was a few
misguided people that were there because
they really thought they were protecting
their southern heritage right and they
were lumped in with all these other
people that used it as a ruse to sort of
set up this hate you I hate meaning to
have to have a permit how many people
went there for that thing I mean there
were there were more protesters of
course yeah as usual which languages
should be um I I don't have the exact
numbers myself I'm not I'm shredding to
get them okay yeah they they get skewed
from either side the police will tell
you one number and the people they were
taking another number the guy who was
the the killer that ran those people
over James fields that that guy seemed
twenty years old the epitome of a lost
soul that got sucked into a horrible
ideology it was not very smart and that
that must be a large percentage of what
they prey on absolutely lost people and
then there's not how a good works sure
and they give you a meaning and a reason
and heritage to defend and then everyone
is in a status right and a bunch of
crazy names like Cyclops and you know
and I know Susan bro
Susan bro is the mother of Heather hire
the girl who was I was murdered and run
run down by James fields that 20 year
old boy threw his life away and it was
premeditated yeah you know he had set
some stuff on the internet
before even going there yeah and praise
Hitler and so forth and so on
you know these are things you know that
we have to be very much aware of and
which is why today you know I I'm
helping a an organization as an advisor
in fact we're putting on a festival of
ideas this year in in June we've already
got a Cornel West and Temple Bill Ackman
and and several other people who have
already committed to doing this festival
of ideas to D radicalize the Internet
and there's a there's a new internet
platform who's been around us for just
over almost two years has already gotten
two million members called minds minds
I got your mind yeah I've had the guy
who created it yeah Bill upman yes yeah
yeah fantastic guy fantastic guy he and
another co-founder uh but they put
together this thing and they brought me
on as an advisor and we're gonna put on
this festival I'm bringing in some
formers now now the head of the of the
NSM is a very good friend of mine and
what is the NSM a National Socialist
Movement they're not not before going
slowly convert those guys as well well
yeah he's out now because of you no no I
I was a contributor okay but he saw the
light and he's a good guy and and he's
helping to get others out you have an
amazing ability to forgive people that
other folks would write off for life
other people would think that those
people were horrific monsters that
aren't worthy of salvation don't get me
wrong there are some of those people
there are some horrific monsters on all
sides
who some of whom will go to their grave
being hateful with violent and racist or
anti-semitic there is no change in them
whatsoever but I can tell you this if
somebody of that of that attitude or
that beliefs you know they're there and
you're here on the spectrum at opposite
ends if they're willing to sit down and
have a conversation no matter how
extreme they may be
there is the opportunity to plant a seed
but but the important thing is anybody
can plant a seed but the follow up is
what's important you have to nurture
that seed you must water it all right so
it grows as you you know when you're
here you think you have nothing in
common but if you spend five minutes
with your worst enemy you will find
something in common you will find
something in common and then you begin
nurturing those commonalities yeah okay
and you're and you're you're closing
that gap so now you're about right here
so now you have formed a relationship
you've gone from here to a relationship
and now you begin nurturing that
relationship and you're closing it in
and when you get about to hear you found
a lot of commonalities and now you've
made a friendship all right
and when you get there the trivial
things that you have in contrast such as
the color of your skin or whether you go
to a church a temple or mosque or a
synagogue begin to matter less and less
if you begin to see that you know um I
and I not be honest you know the most
important thing that you have in any
endeavor is your credibility your
credibility you only have one
opportunity to make especially in this
kind of thing to make a good first
impression you may you may have a second
or third opportunity to to to impress
somebody but you only have one
opportunity to make a good first
impression and most people would judge
you by their first impression of you so
when I would meet these people
I'm as transparent as I can be I'm
honest I don't lie to them I let them
know where I stand but I'm willing to
listen to them I want to hear why I'm
saying enlighten me
teach me why I should believe the way
you believe in see things you know I'm
here to learn from you now how did you
start the conversation with this
National Socialist Movement guy anyway
same that same way and what was the
conversation like with that well he
believes and he believed at the time in
the ideology of Adolf Hitler
you know the master race how old was
this guy when you met him I met him in
he he just left last year and he'd been
the commander for 27 years that's it you
have an amazing gift like the ability to
just slowly talk to these people and
talk some sense into them and the fact
that you're willing to spend the time to
do that that is we have to do that we
have to do that I mean what choice do we
have you know otherwise we're gonna
self-destruct yeah now I will say you
know Joe I I have been between traveling
with my parents as a child in the
Foreign Service and today as a
professional musician playing all over
this country and around the world when
you combine those travels together I
have been in a total of 57 different
countries on six continents so I've been
extremes from from you know three years
old all the way to you I'll be 62 in
March I've been exposed all my life to a
wide variety of religions cultures
traditions ethnicities from all over and
no matter how far I've gone from the
United States no matter how many
different people I've met
I can conclude at the end of the day we
all human beings we may practice
different things have different cultures
different beliefs but we all are human
beings and one of my very favorite
quotes of all time is by Mark Twain and
it's called the travel quote and Mark
Twain said travel is fatal to prejudice
bigotry and narrow mindedness and many
of our people needed sue early on these
accounts broad holds some charitable
views of men and things cannot be
acquired by vegetating in one little
corner of the earth all one's lifetime
and that is so true perhaps if I had not
done that traveling and been exposed to
different things would I be doing this
today maybe not but I think the future
of this are things like like what bill
altman is put together this minds.com
people should check it out my eyes calm
all
little change minds calm they can follow
me there at Darrell Davis where it's a
platform for free speech free speech and
when you can come and express your ideas
not be you know kicked off from the
tough stuff yeah there's gonna be
protocol you know where you know you
never be able to threaten people and
cause some harm to things like that
but you allow people with some of these
toxic ideologies to come on in your mind
and then you engage that and we engage
them and and talk it could be about
about politics have you it could be
about technology whatever have you had
luck talking to people just directly
online cuz my perspective is that one of
the things that makes this work is that
you're very personable and that you know
you're you you're just you being around
you you're a very nice guy to be around
I that probably helped them get closer
to you and get to appreciate you that's
that's the credibility I'm talking about
because you know if like for example I
don't meet somebody one time and that's
a you know they're stripping themselves
of their Robin Hood I think yes okay it
may take repeat visits but that's in
person is what I'm saying yeah like
talking to people online well it's very
difficult to get through to people yeah
it is but you know what people have
watched or seen things online about me
and then have emailed me that tons of
emails people in the client people did
not see movements or whatever was so hey
you know I appreciate what you said you
know you know you gave this person a
fair shake I wasn't really expecting
that from a black person or something
like that
mhm and it wasn't that I was you know
kissing up to somebody no you know I'm
gonna be fair and be transparent and
because of my credibility that affords
me a second visit with them and a third
knows if they didn't like me if their
first impression of me was this guy's an
ass you know and I say you know can we
meet next week now I'm done with you the
only person I've ever known or heard of
that's been like radically converted
just online was Megan Phelps do you know
she is sure sure I know yeah I I never
met Megan I I had conversations with
Rachel who was crazy no this is Rachel
the mom or one of the sisters
Megan's sister yeah
mehgan's very very nice person yeah it's
hard to believe that she was ever locked
into the Westboro Baptist Church and her
husband her now-husband actually
converted her by talking to her on
Twitter of all things might be the
greatest thing that's ever been
accomplished on Twitter that's right yes
so do you do you participate in other
social media platforms like Facebook or
Instagram or any of that or do you just
use mines I'm gonna focus on mines I
think mines has the best platform again
like I said is transparent anybody is
welcome you know there's two million
members now yeah I think and growing and
you know Facebook you know will kick you
off for certain things mines and as I do
that I mean you know they won't allow
you to threaten somebody does mines have
the same sort of algorithm that directs
things towards you that you're
interested in that could facilitate
people getting upset you know Facebook
does that yeah and it turns out that
most of what people are interested in is
what upsets them yeah yeah no they don't
operate like that yeah I think it's
worth anybody to check out you know and
people get frustrated you know I'm
getting off Facebook because I hate all
this arguing so on and you know you can
come here and and talk to some you know
be listen people have a hard time
getting together Thanksgiving because of
our current political climate where
somebody you know voted for our current
president and some other family members
did not vote for that person right um
people should be able to families should
be able to talk about that and and
respect the fact that your brother or
sister voted for for our president and
you didn't you know that should be fine
you know let's let's discuss it we know
what impressed you about him what didn't
impress you why didn't you vote for him
and do it with civil discourse we have
lost the art of civil discourse and and
mines is going to restore that but
that's what we're working on the that's
I'm glad you said that that's one thing
that I've learned how to do by doing
this podcasts learn how to talk to
people better learn how to really listen
to people and mean when I first started
this podcast ten years ago our problem
wasn't very good at it you know it
didn't really have any experience doing
it mostly what I was doing was me
talking like
doing stand-up comedy tomorrow I was
talking to my friends the the civil like
social civil discourse like being able
to sit down with people and calm each
other down and talk and have compassion
genuine compassion for each other and
just listen to each other is one of the
lost arts in in human interaction
because you know what it's because we
see only what the person did we don't
you know in terms of who they voted for
or what they believe and what they did
you know what group they joined we don't
see what led them yeah to that and
because we don't talk to them right you
know when you know we're only interested
interested in the result like let's go
back to Roger Kelly black people are
criminals
why why are they criminals well how do
you say that well because Darrell you
know there are more blacks in prison
than there are whites
he sees the result yeah not seeing what
led up to that right so that's you know
that's where we lose well it's also it's
very difficult for people to actually
have conversations like most people are
committing to text messages and emails
and occasionally phone calls mm-hmm
that's that's how they interact with
each other and then you go out to a
dinner dinner at a restaurant you'll see
people just sitting across from each
other stares and phones yeah I mean it's
it's one of the worst times for
interaction face to face I mean I've
never seen a pie chart on the difference
between the way human beings talk but
there is no question that the amount of
people per capita that communicate
through electronics versus the way just
talking person-to-person over the last
10 years has radically increased and so
has our hostility towards each other in
a lot of ways particularly through those
electronic mediums hostility through
social media is a relatively new thing
social media hate meaning in these mob
groups to just go after people like
that's that's ten years maybe max Wright
2010 issue this is a new thing in human
history and this what you're doing what
you're talking about just sitting down
it's so old-school talking to people
becoming friends people speak and you've
got these projects I mean you've you set
this sort of friendship in motion with
these people and you've changed the
course of their lives and that's it and
then they in turn yes what is that the
wizard dragon fellow what's that guy
doing these days uh he has to work like
two or three jobs because unfortunately
you know when you have that kind of
stigma mm-hmm and you work for a company
where the public sees you and they were
oh that's that guy what did he used to
do bricklayer brick brick maker so he
works security now and but you but there
are a lot more of them you know they
some of them if they don't have a young
family some of them will come out with
me mm-hmm and speak out against their
former organization this other guy who's
very prominent Christian peach aleni
yeah I know do you know him I do along
the same lines he's doing that - he's
like yeah he's helping - Adi radicalized
he was co-founder of a of a group called
on life after hate mm-hmm and and there
are a lot of those farmers who do that
especially if they don't have a young
family because oftentimes um they can
get ramifications you know for speaking
out against their their organization
right so you know you can little
conversations yeah and they'll come
after you or come after your family
insight that so some some fly low under
the radar so your book what is it titled
the book is called clandestine spell
with AK a clandestine relationships and
right now that that book is out of print
I'm working on the second edition second
copy which will handle all new stories
and and plus a lot of the old stuff and
updates have you ever done an audio book
no about thing I'm gonna do it you got a
great voice man perfect for an audio I
have laryngitis right now but I have a
normal voice - it comes and goes I can
hear I hear crackle up yeah but you
obviously have a booming voice it'll be
gone in a couple days that laryngitis
yeah I mean that that way it's always
easy to put back in print as well just
so many people that are digesting
audiobooks versus books me included I
mean I listen to listen to a lot of
podcast but I mean I think half the time
I'm in my car I'm listen to an audiobook
where'd you get the idea to do a podcast
what was the impetus probably no one
would ever give me a radio show mm-hmm
that was from and I think I had gotten
some offers to do radio shows but it was
for like no money and you know satellite
radio kind of a deal for no money and I
had a friend Anthony ku Mia who was on
this show Opie and Anthony and he did a
radial can internet thing in his
basement just for fun he was already on
a radio show but he put up a green
screen in his basement and he's kind of
a nut and he would get drunk and do
karaoke holding a machine gun like crazy
shit but hilarious and I was like this
guy just set up a studio in his basement
how wild is this and so I said well let
me just do a little web thing and so me
and my friend Brian we started doing it
with a webcam just in a laptop just
talking to people online answering
questions and then it started carrying
on but and then that was 10 years ago
and it just kept growing and then it
became what it is now just by just keep
doing it that's all it was I just kept
doing it and then it went from thousands
to millions to just this weird number of
people that are listening to it and
watching it now - it's you know because
they have a hunger for which of what
you're putting out there
well conversation yeah real conversation
like I don't have a agenda I just want
to talk to people like with you as soon
as I got the pitch I was like I need to
talk to you like what you're doing is
insane and and amazing and very very
unusual that for someone have that kind
of patience and commitment to something
like that and to convert these people
and without judgment and to be able to
rationalize with them and talk to them
reasonably these are my fellow American
yes you know we all are we all in this
game together and sometimes people get
trapped in a really fucking stupid
ideology yeah and they don't they
there's a part of their brain that knows
it's dumb
there's a part of the brain that knows
it's toxic and they deny that they
ignore that they squash it and they try
to avoid thinking about it and then
someone like you comes into their life
and you kind of like open this door and
then Joe you know that a toxic thing
happens on both sides
you know I catch hell from people who
look like me not everybody you know but
they're they're people who look like me
who totally disapprove because you're
giving these people a platform because
I'm working with them yes yeah I mean
listen you cannot change somebody's mind
by just allowing them to express what's
on their mind right you know well that's
the argument about deep platforming
people online right right but then the
argument the other way is that you're
radicalizing young people the argument
is there's a lot of young people that
would go on these social media sites and
and they're impressionable and they
don't know any better particularly
YouTube they worry about that because
these YouTube videos they have music and
it's a multimedia experiment helling and
with a really good narrator you can get
people to look at this fucking flat
earth movement right where's that coming
from it comes from a few articulate
narrators who put together these videos
on YouTube where they're the only ones
you get to talk scientists don't get to
interject go stop that's wrong that's
not how I'll show you nope it's like
this look here's a satellite photo look
here's a hundred satellite photos look
here's all the satellites to take
pictures of the earth they don't get to
do that so these guys they they'll have
this long uninterrupted narrated video
that makes so much sense you you listen
to this guy guys he's changed oh my god
the world's flat I can't believe they're
fucking lying to me so there's hundreds
of thousands of people that believe in
the Flat Earth now because they've been
radicalized because they've been
converted by these multimedia things
like YouTube this is what people worried
about in terms of radicalizing them
towards hateful ideologies as well and
I'm glad you're using that word
radicalized yeah cuz that's exactly your
spot-on because you know we was until
recently that we began using that word
domestically we know for a while there
were only
using it for from middle-eastern type
people you know when when somebody like
Dylan roof did what he did we didn't say
he was radicalized so you know he must
have some mental issues well it's both
isn't it well sure I mean anybody walks
in the house and starts shooting up
people and has mental issues yes but but
they but they have beacon what what
allowed them become radicalized maybe
those mental issues yes you know but but
we don't we don't say radicalize when it
comes to our own yeah because we're
ashamed of it
so many different code words for example
what do you call these groups of white
people who go out in the woods and
practice maneuvers and survival of stuff
survivalist stuff
they're like anti-government kind of a
paramilitary yeah like what do they call
them malicious exactly right okay
militias all right what do you what do
you call the same type of things with
black people I didn't know they have
they call them they call them militants
oh like the Black Panthers okay okay
right right so what you know it's that
same thing right but one term hasn't had
more of a negative connotation militias
got a pretty negative connotation not as
negative as militant yeah yeah yes no it
seems to say shit to me and let's take
back when when Obama got into office we
had a new political party that came out
of nowhere the Tea Party the Tea Party
right last time you heard of a tea party
was in 1776 what happened to them those
Tea Party folks they're still floating
around
really yes themselves a tea party no
because Obama's gone now I think they
were out by the time he mean it was
before he was even gone didn't they fall
apart because he got a second term you
know work but but their their slogan was
take our country back
take our country back okay take America
back
that is a Klan slogan mmm
okay and it was a code term for the Tea
Party that that was a clarion call and
people it resonated with a certain ilk
of people that slogan started in 1954
with the Klan 1954 when Brown versus the
Board of Education desegregated schools
you know on YouTube find all these Klan
rallies with these Wizards in
translating with the burning cross and
balancing whether I take our country
back I'm not gonna let my little white
boys and girls go to school little
nigger children and blah blah blah well
not take our country back back the
segregation didn't want integrated right
so I would ask these tea party people
why are you using a Klan slogan and it's
uh Nana now Darrell that's not what we
mean
I said well you don't say take our
country back from who you don't say take
our country back to what you say take
our country back or kind of open-ended I
said you know what would you know we
trying to say uh what we mean is we will
not take our country back from the
Democrats take it back to Republican
rule okay that's fine why not say that
exactly they're using an already used
slogan the right take a case exactly so
it harkens to those people right and
here's the thing last time I checked
Bill Clinton was a Democrat Jimmy Carter
was a Democrat
where was the Tea Party where was taking
our country back and then all of a
sudden a black guy gets in the White
House and they start screaming take our
country back
right right you can put two and two
together right where were you guys eight
years ago it's the four years ago yeah
is that right and now check out martyred
the king all right we had to fight fight
for decades to have Martin Luther King
Day there was a lot of resistance to
that do you realize that and a lot of
resistance it was the fact that Marty
the king is the only American man in
this country
to have a holiday all to himself and
guess what he's black what do you mean
by a holiday all to himself
Columbus Day was not an American oh
that's right okay
what kind of was when he became no he
thought he well first of all Columbus
didn't even land here and he was like
basically a serial killer he's a serial
killer he was a rapist yeah and a
pillager and he didn't he didn't
discover a damn thing what did they call
an indigenous peoples day now ya know
how do you discover something when you
get there people are already there
well not only that like why did it take
until basically the later latter half of
the 20th century before people came to
grips of the fact that he was an
atrocious human being like when we were
kids when I was an I'm a little bit
younger than you I'm 52 when I was in
high school it was Columbus sailed the
ocean blue yeah into the Santa Maria
Maria this was this was a guy who was an
explorer he was going there for Spain he
was in LA and then when you get older
and you lead these missionaries accounts
of the horrific crimes and we still
celebrated yeah well I mean do we sort
us out we kind of are done celebrating
him right now we still have Columbus Day
it should some dizziness people's day
now no they call it that yeah but we've
to win the counter so says Columbus Day
does it yeah not on the Apple calendar
really that's great I don't think so
maybe I was ahead of his time I think it
says indigenous peoples day now okay
maybe I'm wrong but fucking should it
should yeah now so we used to have two
white guys who each had a holiday all to
himself
Americans who are those guys we used to
have maybe before your time during my
time George Washington day and Abraham
Lincoln day really yeah you remember
that yeah and then so we had too many
holidays so they combined those two days
in one day call presidents okay we'll
just do any holidays you have
productivity exactly sweet so yeah so it
took those away and combined them
so so now the only American man who has
a holiday to himself is a black man and
they can't handle it
Martha King and now they we had to fight
for decades to give this man a holiday
when he gave his life to bring this
country together yet we give a holiday
to Christopher Columbus who as you
pointed out was a murderer or a serial
killer a pillager a rapist okay who
didn't discover a damn thing right Marge
the King never murdered pillaged and
raped but yet we don't want to give him
a holiday you know so that's the
inequity in this country and I'll tell
you something else um well now there are
a lot of people who would disagree with
me and that's okay because we're
Americans we can disagree and we're all
all individuals but there are people who
will agree with me also and I've been
saying this now for 22 years one of the
things that will help us to to advance
into the 21st century because we are
behind the times we need at this point
to get rid of Black History Month now I
know a lot of people listening are gonna
like freak out let me explain all right
for the longest time we needed Black
History Month Black History was not
being taught in our schools
now you remember when you pointed out a
moment ago that when you were in school
you know Columbus was a hero looked up
man etc and then you go to college he
learn otherwise when I was in high
school it was not in our textbooks that
we had our internment camps with
japanese-americans I did not learn that
until I got to college like what are you
kidding me right I didn't believe it
and now it's in the textbooks yeah so I
said you were behind the times okay so
anyway um we didn't have black history
all right yeah what we had was called
American history it might as well have
been called white history because that's
all it was and and even in some cases
whites are being given credit for things
they did not invent and for places they
did not discover
but we knew we were told at home then
said that but not in schools so we had
to fight fight fight and finally we got
one week it was called Negro History
Week
Carter G Woodson created that and
schools had Negro History Week one week
a year we continued fighting harder and
harder finally we got one month you know
nobody's gonna give us everything at one
time right
they'd dole it out little by little so
we got that one month shortest month of
the year right February tomorrow yeah
it's no coincidence but but but we
accepted it for two reasons
it was the birth month of two of our
heroes Frederick Douglass and Abraham
Lincoln
all right so we accepted that and then
we stopped fighting and that was a
mistake on our part we became complacent
all right and now it's my belief that
Black History Month has become
detrimental to to us to all of us might
am black I'll tell you why yes we needed
it for a certain period of time because
we had nothing but here's the problem we
only study black history in February and
each February we study the same half a
dozen people Martin Luther King Rosa
Parks Harriet Tubman Booker T Washington
George Washington Carver and one or two
other ones by the time we get through
half a dozen up our month deserver we
did our black thing let's move on all
right
yet we study Benjamin Franklin Eli
Whitney Alexander Graham Bell Thomas
Edison F F scott Fitzgerald Francis
Scott Key all year long we're constantly
reinforcing what they did all year long
we never forget who flew the kite and
the lightning hit the key and we have
electricity we all know it's Ben
Franklin all right but yet if you ask
some kid in June say um who was a
Harriet Tubman oh yeah yeah I remember
her yeah she was that lady who refused
to give up her seat on the bus they got
confused with Rosa Parks because there's
been no reinforcements
February and then next year next
February is the same half a dozen people
all right so you're constantly I'm not
taking anything away from those people
they were some of the greatest alright
but you're constantly reinforcing that
there were only six or seven black
people in this whole country who ever
did anything what about the guy who
invented the traffic light what about
the person who invented the ironing
board and so many other black
discoveries and inventions oh we didn't
have time for that
we only have one month you have you got
time to talk about Ben Franklin all year
long
you know Women's History Month is March
when did you get rid of that to take
these things out of those months and put
them where they belong
under the umbrella of American history
and teach them all year long that way
kids get accustomed to this and they
learned that and they have more respect
for each other
look I remember when I was a kid Miss
America beauty contest there were only
two categories and was all white women
black women were not allowed to join us
him to compete in Miss America all the
judges were white males two categories
the evening gown evening wear and the
swimsuit that was it women were
objectified there were sex objects you
know they didn't have talent they didn't
need to write an essay or show what else
they can do they just looked at and
judged on that so black women were
deemed not beautiful enough to do
compete in Miss America plus they didn't
want any white man judging a black woman
in a bathing suit or whatever so black
women began having low self-esteem as
they were told they were not as
beautiful as these other women so what
did we as black people do to elevate the
esteem self-esteem of black girls we
created the Miss black America beauty
pageant to give them something to aspire
to and that worked for a while finally
finally Miss America the bid one came to
his senses and opened his doors
I don't know the exact year um
I guess was back in the 70s some time
opened its doors to all
American women regardless of their
ethnicity color or whatever as long as
they were American they could compete
and since that time we've had we've had
more than one Miss America who's been
black starting with Vanessa Williams and
then Debbie Turner I think maybe one or
two other ones since that time so now
because Miss America has come into the
time we can get rid of Blatt of Miss
black America we don't even anymore
right we got the main one when are we
gonna come to American history mmm we
need to get rid of Black History Month
we just we just finished the first black
American president what are we gonna do
with Obama or we gonna put him in in the
end the February box that sees black
only talked about him in February talk
about him in March or September
cuz he's black history put him in
February right it's crazy how we how we
do this listen we claim to be the
greatest nation on the face of this
earth I have a problem with that and
don't get me wrong I'm a patriot I love
my country but I do have a problem with
that statement and I'll say that perhaps
we are the greatest nation on the face
of this earth technologically after all
we put a man on the moon we invented the
technology to carry that man to the moon
safely and allow him to walk around get
back in his lunar module and come back
to Earth safely we invented that
technology not only that when he was
when when Neil Armstrong was up there
walking around and made that famous song
one small step for man one giant leap
for mankind quote we were able to talk
with him live all the way from Earth
NASA headquarters all the way to the to
the moon live via satellite radio phone
we invented that technology Americans
everybody you know has a cell phone
everybody you know has email hit a few
words hit a few numbers hit Send you're
talking to people
nextdoor in Nevada or over in Africa
China Australia wherever you want off
anywhere on the face of this earth we
invented that technology so how is it
that we as Americans can talk to people
as far away as the moon or anywhere on
the face of this earth yet so many of us
have difficulty talking to the American
who lives right next door because he or
she is a different color a different
religion a different ethnicity a
different persuasion are different
whatever it seems to me that before we
can call ourselves the greatest our our
ideology needs to catch up to our
technology and when we get ourselves up
there both of them up there
then we can truly brag about how great
we are because we are living in the 21st
century we are living in space-age times
yet there's still so many of us thinking
with Stone Age Minds what is this doing
in the 21st century what was it doing in
any century but yet in the 21st century
I'd be kidding me
well it brings me back to what you were
saying earlier that the problem is
education the problem is ignorance right
and the the solution to education is
ignorance and this is sort of the same
thing when it comes to radicalizing
young people online right they're one of
the reasons why that works at all is
because these young people are
susceptible to other ideas because their
intelligence immune systems very low
they don't have a lot of data they don't
have a lot of education they don't have
a lot of information and they don't have
a lot of perspective so they can be they
could be tricked
they'll be roped in yes and this is this
is the same with everything this is the
same with what you were talking about
with not trusting your neighbors because
they're a different nationality or
different color and not communicating
with people that are any different than
you and then being toxically tribal it's
all kind of the same thing it's like
there's a lack of understanding of what
the consequences that are globally and
in personally to your own life well
again you know back to mines mines is my
those young kids get to get those
perspectives we'll have people on there
who are the experts and and sucking
those kids into enter these are things I
know a former jihadi a recruiter for
Isis who used to recruit kids to put
them in Isis here in the States
ok get him Jeff scoop the guy from from
the NSM he knew what to do in order to
lure people into his movement what's the
NSM a National Socialist Movement the
Nazis Tom yeah so these people are
willing to help on minds and help point
out these different things with little
telltale signs as to what they look for
you know you know so parents can spot
what oh and this isn't sound right you
buy blah blah running to get my kid off
of here yes and give kids a better
perspective Mines have a video component
to it or it will it will it will
absolutely absolutely my working on that
now ya see that is for better I mean
whether it's correct or not that's
apparently the people that are really
worried about people being radicalized
online they're more concerned with that
than anything else with video there's
something about the compelling videos
the music in the video and yes oh yeah
you know they play video games all day
it lures the men but you know back to
what I was saying before and they finish
it what's happening that that we we
don't see in the media a lot is this
when I was a kid the black population in
this country was 12% 11.9 12%
Native Americans just under 1% Hispanic
people Latino people 2 and 3% Asians 4%
white people 84 86 % so white people of
the supremacist type mindset their
biggest their biggest nemesis of course
we're black people at 12% whoa that's
way too much you know they didn't care
anything about Native Americans if their
attitude was that's just 1% sticking on
a reservation forget about them right
and that's where these negative terms
come from you know that allow people
don't realize
are insulting terms you know when you
say somebody has gone off the
reservation you've heard that term
before right yeah yeah I think it's out
of that it's now exactly yeah you know
wow you see what I'm saying uh-huh you
don't realize it's a it's a negative
term yeah or when somebody says that's
not your cotton-picking business okay
who picked cotton right right okay
I thought it was a nice way saying
motherfucking it's a freaking yeah it's
none of your kind of picking biz but
yeah yeah or when somebody comes to the
wrong side of the tracks
yeah yeah the railroad track divided by
some one side west on the other the
wrong side of course was the black side
anyway so their biggest nemesis if they
were of that supremacist mindset were
black people 12 percents too much right
now today black people we remain at 12%
we've not grown 12.16 means you look at
2017 census we have not grown 12% Native
Americans are still at 1%
Asians are at 6% Hispanics have
surpassed us they're like at 13% or
something just above 13% so let's just
take 12 percent black 13% Hispanic look
at the only 6% Asian or whatever that's
25 percent non-white this is happening
okay
and it's well predicted by 2042
which is 22 years from now this country
for the first time in history will be 50
percent white and 50 percent non-white
right so that's the story you've seen is
true that is a very hard pill to swallow
for people of that mindset they're
becoming unhinged and and disconcerted
you know well that was that they will
not replace us thing right precisely you
exactly now you're getting it it's
exactly and that's what they call the
Browning of America yeah um and and the
white genocide and see what they're
doing as these groups are stepping up
their recruitment efforts now because
one of the one of the main problems is
in this country one of the main concerns
is illegal immigration so these groups
are saying hey you know we're against
illegal immigration to come come join us
you know they're getting on on a
legitimate bandwagon but when they say
illegal immigration is a code word
it's a code word for people from South
America Mexico West Africa okay because
there are plenty of people here in this
country right now we're here from Canada
nobody gives a fuck about Canadians come
exactly Canadians or people from the UK
or Eastern Europe Canadians speak
perfect English too sure they slide
right in and it doesn't even matter the
English or not you know if you're you
know he's not seasoned Clampett will
tell me Darrell I don't want my
grandkids to be brown well you know if
they're if their kid were to marry
somebody from Canada their grandkids
might be white or the UK of Eastern
Europe that'll be white but if they let
their grandkids marry somebody from El
Salvador or Guatemala or Nigeria Oh
heaven forbid right Heather's prepared
you know it's a trouble so what happens
is this they said come join us you know
we're gonna take our country back we're
gonna build that wall blah blah blah
so people you know people see the
landscape changing you know and so
they're going join these groups and the
loop doesn't do anything so then what
happens is so you know what if the Klan
can't do it if the NSM can't do it I'll
do it myself and that's when they walk
into a synagogue
boom boom a boom or into a black church
from a boom well Passover buh buh buh
buh okay these are called lone wolves
now we have intelligence agencies or
whatever that can infiltrate some of
these groups and get in there and get
all the stuff and foil those plots you
know gather intelligence but you cannot
infiltrate a lone wolf it's only one
person alright and as we get closer and
closer to 20 42 unfortunately we're
gonna see more and more
of these lone wolves and that's what we
have to watch out for
so you notice every time one of these
white supremacist types gets a busted
and they go and raid his home what do
they find a whole cache of automatic
weapons and all that kind of stuff
that's for the race war when they track
racism over the last 100 years
it's a decline it's at a measurable
decline but not enough what could be
done to accelerate that decline what do
you think can be done to sort of start
start teaching us something of civics
spent you know spike up the civics in
elementary school and I don't wait to
high school by civics what do you mean
exactly you know our country is so
diverse now we need to learn about the
history of everybody in our country and
everybody's contributions to making this
a great country white black Hispanic
women whatever our country is truly a
melting pot and we and we need to treat
it as such and give everybody
credibility so you know this person you
know looks different than me but he
contributed something that I need I look
different than him but I contribute
something that he needs yeah you know
that kind of thing so we have more
mutual respect for one another you know
the older generations are going to die
out but we have to stop them from
proliferating their their BS to these
younger generations you know and we do
this in schools right you know look when
I was in junior high school which they
don't have any more right to have middle
school now sex education was being
introduced parents were freaking out oh
my god I don't want my kids learning
that well guess what they didn't want
their kid going to school and learning
about sex but yet these parents were not
teaching their kid about sex at home
either they don't want their kid
learning it how do I stop a kid from
learning about sex if you don't let your
teachers in school educate them properly
and you're not willing to do it at home
your kids still gonna learn it and where
where is he or she's gonna learn it out
in the street and then what are you
gonna do when your kid comes home
pregnant you don't be all freaked out so
if you want to take sex ed when I was in
junior high school we had to bring a
note from your parents saying it was
okay yeah yeah okay and then you have
like a little small class of five or six
people taking sex ed today this part of
the regular curriculum yeah and as a
result kids today are better informed
about venereal disease STDs
family planning contraception and all
these kinds of things because they're no
longer ignorant they have more
information all right
the same thing has the taboo on sex
education has been lifted okay we need
to lift the taboo on on on racism in
schools and talk about it at an early
age how much time are they
allocating towards teaching people how
to accept diverse groups and how to
accept how to how to fight against
racism I mean is that something that's
taught it seems like that should be a
core curriculum in private schools where
I see it as mostly in private schools I
don't see in public schools which is
very unfortunate you know you know
parents parents seem to cinder to run
the schools you know you know if if your
kid for example you send your kid to
school and you find out your kid is not
learning what you think he or she should
learn what do you do you take him out of
that school and put him in another
school right if they don't learn it
there you put them in a private school
they don't learn it there you can come
home and you homeschool them and so I'm
from you know you know a lot of a lot of
schools are very loath to to step on
eggshells with parents you know that you
know they don't want to upset the
parents whatever but they need to the
parents are not the teachers the
teachers are the teachers well it seems
that if you could explain to kids how
people get radicalized if you could
explain to kids what happens online how
they draw you in what's the appeal of
being a part of a tribe and which is a
big part of it right a big part of his
being like a gang run same thing that
attracts kids to gangs like everybody's
in it we're all together it's like it's
in a
a tight group right yeah I mean that
that gets people in and when they draw
you in like that if the kid said oh this
is that shit they talked about in
seventh grade I know what they're doing
I mean just that yes that information
yes exactly yes and so schools are one
thing academic at an early age the next
thing I fault our church is what want to
say churches I mean religious
institutions which would include
synagogues etc and you know I hate to
get down on the clergy but I'm telling
you they they are they they have
accountability that they're not
accepting um and don't get me wrong I'm
a Christian all the time stuff out and I
was a deacon in my church at one time
but here's the thing whether you're
Jewish Catholic Protestant Mormon
whatever you have some form of Sunday
school after you go down in the basement
in your eager facility and you're in
your church or temple or whatever um and
your Sunday School lesson you're when
you're four or five years old they teach
you that uh we're all God's children God
made a rainbow right and we accept that
at four or five years old and then as we
grow older we reach puberty and
adolescence whatever we move upstairs to
the big congregation now we're sitting
up there with the adults arm the the
clergy the rabbi the priest the minister
the pastor the Reverend whatever you
whatever no longer teaches that Sunday
School lesson they stop saying upstairs
we're all God's children what do you
think would happen if the Reverend of
the priests we're sitting the
congregation one Sunday morning hey
folks guess what it's okay for blacks
and whites to marry it's okay for Jews
to marry Catholics half the congregation
would get up and leave and they wouldn't
be putting their money in the in the
collection plate because they're not
hearing what they want to hear right and
because it has not been continued that
that Sunday School lesson needs to be
continued upstairs
so adults feel hey you know we're all a
rainbow with all of God's children but
the priest does not say that or the
Reverend is not said that anymore
because he's afraid of walking on
eggshells and and stopping the flow of
money coming in the tithes and all
forints in that collection plate people
be changing churches or firing him right
and then your kid is uh um let's say
let's say let's say I'm Catholic and now
I'm in a 12th grade and I'm going to
senior prom so my mom says so so Daryl
who came to the senior prom I say I'm I
take Susan Goldberg yeah you know this
is a nice girl
but but don't you think you should take
a nice Catholic girl
well yeah mom but I mean but you know I
thought we're all God's children uh yeah
we are but exactly but it's not a god
word but it's a man word yes God was
perfect if we if we are to believe in
the concept of God then we are to
believe that God did not make any
exceptions and buts and mistakes etc
little loopholes he was perfect from the
word go but is a man word it's an
exception yes God was perfection man is
exception all right so that's what
happened you know if so so that's why
the clergy does not continue that Sunday
School lesson they're afraid of losing
money in other words they put they put
money above morality and they should be
held accountable well it seems like
there's a lot of problems it's not it's
not one thing it's not just a clergy
it's not just the schools it's certainly
the parents and it's what the parents
were taught so it's the parents parents
it's the continuing of the Inc rights
but but the big inherited one of the
most the most influential unless you're
atheist of course the most influential
authority in your life is your church
everybody you have the list of churches
a kid yeah unless you're atheist or
whatever so that weighs very heavily
well how do you even ask the atheist
then huh how do you reach the atheists
then you know agnostic a lot of atheists
and a lot and
Gnostics have excellent morals a lot of
them do their the oh they have our
churches called ethical societies and I
should welcome any of them before you
know they don't believe in God you know
it was nothing beginning that I advocate
but I'm saying that they they know right
from wrong and and and you find less
controversy and and and racism and more
acceptance in these places so it's about
ethics and morality more so than
division well why do you have a white
Baptist Church and a black Baptist
Church was that all about a Baptist
should be Baptist it's the same King
James Bible you know and what you know
why aren't they aren't they preaching
the same lesson in Sunday school that
they preach upstairs they're not
concerned about something little four
and five-year-olds there were all God's
children I made a rainbow you know why
because a little four and five girls
don't have any money so they're not
consumed they're not getting any money
in the collection right there it doesn't
matter it matters where the money is you
you say what you got to say to get the
amount of money that you need that's you
know I don't go to church so that's an
alien concept to me but that's sad if
that's the lesson if that's the way
they're structuring their lessons in a
church or synagogue or a temple that
that's how they're doing it they're
structuring their structuring their
lessons to achieve more donations lose
megachurches yeah well look at them hmm
look at how many times do some of these
priests and preachers get in trouble
these those mega churches always seem to
me to be run by cult leaders that are
keeping it together they're just keeping
it together staying within the structure
of traditional Christianity want to
believe in something
yes so why not believe in the Klan when
I believe rights you know and whatever
yes yeah yeah yeah it's tribal we have
this intense desire to stay tribal but
we've got to consider ourselves a tribe
of the human race exactly the human race
that that can be taught to people you
can yeah I think what you're done where
you're proving and what you're doing by
your amazing accomplishments is showing
that that even in the most radicalized
of people the KKK and the National
Socialist Movement you're converting
people well I'm gonna hook you up with
some friends of mine like by Jeff scoop
who was the the recent leader of the NSM
Arno Michaelis who co-founded our life
after hate and he spends his whole life
dedicated to D radicalizing people
please do have their stories absolutely
you know and you can get their
perspective what got them in right but
more importantly what got them out what
were the triggers that got them out
after years of hating people and yeah
and doing this you know what made them
see something differently and and how
can that be parlayed into into other
entities well I'm hoping that just
hearing it from someone who's maybe
struggling with that maybe maybe they
live in a very tribal community or there
and some sort of a toxic environment
their family would drag them in and
they're they're really trying to figure
out how long they can do this and how
they can get out and what's the steps to
get out well it's not only getting out
but you know there has to be and here's
another thing that I provide for these
people when they come out
eisah bra I provide support because
oftentimes you know these people if they
come from a family that belong to these
groups you know they and they decided to
leave the group of what everything they
still got their family or whatever but
if if they come from a family that was
not racist
for example maybe it may have been some
dysfunction or they just read the wrong
book or made friends with the wrong
person
and went down that rabbit hole or
whatever and they you know they give an
oath and they join these groups the
family disowns them you know you don't
want your kid around your house if you
have black friends and Jewish friends
and he's over there insulting them you
know you you stay away from this house
you know you long on my kid right right
so their family becomes that group right
right you know you took a blood oath you
know we got your back you got our back
we are your family
just like gangs just like gangs okay
yeah and then finally you come to your
senses
and you see how crazy it was and you
quit you you get out
well now you're left out there swinging
in the wind because your biological
family still doesn't want you you have
disgraced them your old friends from
high school you know found out you know
you've gone down that road they don't
want to associate with you because you
have that that stench that stigma
attached to you you may be an ex Klan
member
but that ex clan member will always
precede your title you know like for
example David Duke um you know he
belongs on all kinds of different white
supremacist groups but whenever you see
him listed in the media so it's X Klan
leader David Duke
bla bla bla it's never just David Duke
that Title X Klan leader it follows you
and people you know look down on you for
that you can't go back to your old group
you've betrayed them you know so you
know they want nothing to do with you so
to beat you up or something and so now
you're out here can't go to your family
your friends have disowned you you turn
to alcohol or drugs or some other gang
it's just a that nurture that belong
right so they need something there to
support them and that's also where I
come in
well you know I give them a chance cream
something to believe and help their self
esteem etc damn that's very important
Darrell for anybody's listening right
now what what is the best way for them
to find out more what's the best way for
them to take a step like what what
website would you point them to would
you point them to your minds account yes
I want them to uh to minds.com
and change dot minds DOM and Darrell
Davis comm dar a yl only one R Darrell
Davis com listen what you've done is
amazing and what your you know your
message the way you handle yourself the
way you've managed to you know
infiltrate those groups just talk sense
to them and convert them it's it's very
inspiring and very humbling and thank
you I really appreciate you being here
man really my pleasure my pleasure
spreading your message let's consider
this part
one yes sir let's do it again I would
love to thank you thank you thank you
very much Darryl my pleasure
bye everybody
[Music]